Luis Fernandez, who will train French champions  Paris St. Germain next season, was given a rousing send-off by the home fans  at Cannes on Saturday when his team clinched the last available UEFA Cup place  for next season.
On the final day of the Championship, Cannes held St. Etienne to a  goalless draw while the other contenders for France's final European berth,  Montpellier, were beaten 3-2 at Lyon.
Fernandez was mobbed by his players and fans after the match and the  champagne flowed in the dressing-room.
Despite having to share the points with the visitors, Cannes still managed  to pip recent French Cup finalists Montpellier who crashed 3-2 at Lyon.
The home side were under immediate pressure and Montpellier went ahead  through Christophe Sanchez after just seven minutes when he soared to head  home from a Franck Rizzetto corner.
But jubilation on the visitors' bench was short-lived.
Four minutes later Florian Maurice dived spectacularly to head home a  cross from Franck Gava. Worse was to follow for Montpellier. After  half-an-hour James Debbah jinxed round visiting goalkeeper Claude Barrabe and  slotted into an open net.
Sanchez raised Montpellier's hopes on the hour when he scored his second  goal of the match. It was a replica of the first -- the forward heading in  from another Rizzetto corner.
Eight minutes later, however, Maurice put the issue beyond doubt when he  too scored his second goal of the match. He cleverly controlled a cross from  Sylvbain Deplace, took his time and picked his spot to hammer in a tremendous  drive.
Paris St. Germain, already sure of the title, finished the season with a  flurry.
They scored a 4-1 victory over Bordeaux at Parc des Princes to finish on  59 points from their 38 matches. Their goals came from Paul Le Guen (19, 23),  David Ginola (31) and veteran Liberian frontrunner George Weah (71)
Bordeaux pulled one back through Didier Senac on the hour.
Unfortunately the post-match celebrations were marred when the notorious  Paris St. Germain supporters tried to invade the pitch and clashed when they  were prevented from doing so by riot police. There were no reports of any  injuries
