Advancing northern Yemeni forces fought  artillery duels with southern troops at this giant air base some 60 kilometres  (36 miles) north of the key port city of Aden on Wednesday.
An AFP correspondent at the northern edge of the base saw artillery rounds  crashing into a fortified hilltop bunker where northern Yemeni T-55 tanks were  positioned.
Meanwhile, southern jets flying high overhead drew intermittent bursts of  anti-aircraft fire.
A northern commander, Colonel Ali Ahmad Thabet, said the Al-Anad base was  held by his troops, who were making it secure before pushing south to Aden.
They had positioned mobile anti-aircraft batteries, Katyusha rocket  launchers and heavy guns near the northern perimetre.
Up to 200 southerners were captured in the battle when the base was  seized, he said, along with a large quantity of weapons including surface to  air missiles and tanks.
Thabet said the southern troops withdrew from the base Tuesday and were  now shelling it from the town of Lahij, 25 kilometres (15 miles) further south.
Many southern troops were killed in the battle for the base, which started  Monday, Thabet said. But he did not give precise figures.
A plume of black smoke hung over the base, which one officer said came  from a bombed fuel depot.
Control of Al-Anad was a key objective of northern forces loyal to  President Ali Abdallah Saleh in their push towards Aden, stronghold of the  rival southerners led by Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid.
The rival armies from the former conservative North and Marxist South  Yemen, which united four years ago, have been locked in civil war for two  weeks.
The base covers a vast area of barren desert stretching some 15 kilometres  (nine miles) south from the northern perimetre.
Another northern officer, Major Yahya Sanad, said the southerners were  firing Katyusha rockets from Lahij.
Sanad said most of the southern troops abandoned the base as the  northerners advanced.
"The north will go into Aden, for sure, Sanad said. "We want to capture  Ali Salem al-Baid, inshaallah (God willing)."
Correspondents taken to Al-Anad by the northern command were also shown a  fly-blown makeshift hospital in Ar-Rahida, 75 kilometres (47 miles) north of  the base. Three northern troops, one on a drip, and one southerner with a  serious leg wound lay on matresses on the floor in a converted schoolroom.
Dr Abdel Habib Radman said there were "enough medical supplies" at the  hospital which had about 25 patients and 12 doctors.
Supplies had been brought in from the main hospital in the town which was  bombed by southern jets six days ago, he explained.
He said about 20 wounded soldiers from Al-Anad were brought to the  converted school Tuesday and 15 Monday. They were later transferred to a  hospital in Taizz 30 kilometres further north.
