GATT chief Peter Sutherland on Tuesday  reacted positively to reports suggesting that the United States was unlikely  to withdraw China's most favoured nation (MFN) trade status.
"If there are signals that the issue between the United States and China  is to be resolved, obviously there is something which is of some bearing,"  Sutherland said, as news reports indicated that Washington could renew China's  MFN status with conditions attached.
"I don't want to exaggerate until I see the actual results," Sutherland  said, adding that MFN was "an element that is obviously relevant to the debate  on China's reentry into the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
"The MFN is a relevant basis of which the whole multilateral system is  structured," said Sutherland, who arrived in Kuala Lumpur Monday to speak at  the 27th Pacific Basin Economic Council international general meeting  Wednesday.
Reports from Washington said it seemed increasingly unlikely that  President Bill Clinton would carry out his threat of withdrawing MFN on June 3  because of China's human rights record, disrupting trade worth an estimated 40  billion dollars.
Richard Brecher of the US-China Business Council, which represents some  250 US companies doing business with China, was reported as saying Tuesday: "I  don't think he (Clinton) has much choice but to renew, which has been the  weakness of the policy from the beginning -- it was not a credible threat."
Secretary of State Warren Christopher appears to be in favour of a  middle-ground approach to renewing MFN, according to a senior administration  official.
The official said Christopher had briefed Clinton on Monday on his ongoing  analysis of human rights in China. He was inclined to renew the trade  benefits, but with targetted sanctions for certain goods.
China, which was a founding member of GATT but left after the communists  came to power in 1949, has made it clear that it attaches great political  significance to being readmitted before the World Trade Organisation's (WTO)  inception on January 1.
