US Secretary of State Warren Christopher flew  back to Syria on Wednesday after a day of talks in Israel seeking to bring the  two neighbours back to the peace table, officials said.
Before leaving Ben Gurion airport, he met Palestinian leader Faisal  Husseini at the US consulate in East Jerusalem.
The follow-up talks centred on aid for the new Palestinian police,  Palestinian sources said. Christopher saw Husseini and a delegation from the  territories in the newly-autonomous enclave of Jericho on Tuesday.
"I am going back to Damascus for further discussions to try find a common  basis between the parties," Christopher told reporters after meeting Prime  Minister Yitzhak Rabin on Tuesday evening.
The secretary said he had Rabin's "encouragement" to go back to Damascus  where he spent Sunday and Monday in talks with President Hafez al-Assad and  Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara.
Officials said he would go on to Cairo the same day before returning to  Washington on Thursday.
Israeli is pressing for fresh direct negotiations with Syria after     putting forward a new peace package two weeks ago. It includes an offer of a  phased withdrawal from the Golan Heights linked to security arrangements in  return for total peace.
Rabin admitted: "There a lot of problems, we are at the beginning, still a  long way to go."
He praised the secretary's efforts "to facilitate a real breakthrough".
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres spoke of "room for manoeuvre" with Syria.
Israel's ambassador to Washington, Itamar Rabinovitch, told state radio:      "There are signs they want to make progress but there are no manifest  expressions of the way in which they intend to do so."
The bilateral negotiations in Washington have not been held since before  the February 25 Hebron mosque massacre.
Israel demands a prior Syrian commitment for total peace before  negotiating the size of any withdrawal from the Golan Heights. Syria demands  that Israel first commit itself to quit all the strategic plateau before  talking about the type of peace.
