US and North Korean officials have held a new  round of informal talks on the problem of Pyongyang's nuclear program, a State  Department spokesman said Friday.
"Working-level officials from the State Department met with the North  Korean mission to the United Nations in New York on Thursday afternoon in  connection with efforts to resolve the nuclear issue," David Johnson told  reporters.
It was the third such meeting since February. He refused to comment on the  content of the meeting.
Asked if the United States was now prepared to set a date for a third  round of formal US-North Korean talks, Johnson said Washington would consider  this after International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors complete a visit to  North Korea scheduled to begin this week.
US and North Korean officials have held two rounds of formal talks since  Pyongyang threatened a year ago to pull out of the nuclear non-proliferation  treaty (NPT), amid fears that it was developing a nuclear weapon.
The talks were aimed at persuading Pyongyang to remain in the NPT and  allow resumption of international inspections of its nuclear installations. In  return, the United States was to discuss improved economic relations and North  Korea's security concerns.
But when little progress was apparent after the second round in July,  Washington said it would not hold a third round until international  inspections had resumed to verify that Pyongyang was not developing a nuclear  weapon, and until North Korea resumed dialogue with the South.
North Korea agreed in February to the inspections, and to the dialogue,  but plans for a third round of talks were called off when the inspectors  reported that they had not been given full access to the sites they wanted to  visit.
The IAEA announced Friday that a team of IAEA inspectors is to leave for  North Korea this weekend to complete the inspections it was unable to carry  out earllier.
It also said that North Korea was willing to hold talks with the agency to  try and narrow differences between the two on the replacement of fuel rods at  a controversial nuclear plant.
