Germany's balance of payments was 5.2 billion  German marks (3.15 billion dollars) in the black for March, against a deficit  of 1.4 billion marks in February, the Bundesbank said Thursday issuing  definitive figures.
The capital account showed a surplus of 1.5 billion marks in March against  a deficit of 1.5 billion in February, the central bank said in a statement.
The long-term capital account was 27 billion marks in the red for March,  against a 13.8 billion deficit in February, while the short-term account was  in surplus by 28.6 billion compared with a surplus of 12.3 billion in February.
In its statement, the Bundesbank explained the deepening of the long-term  capital account deficit by an increase in the purchase of German stock by  foreign investors totalling 18 billion marks in March against 9.2 billion in  February.
At the same time German investors had reduced their foreign holdings, to  5.2 billion marks against 10.6 billion in February, the bank said.
The current account -- after the capital account the second major element  in the balance of payments -- showed a deficit of 900 million marks for March,  compared with a February deficit of 4.6 billion marks, the statement said.
The trade balance (part of the current account) showed a surplus of 7.4  billion marks in March against a positive 5.8 billion in February.
Exports as well as imports had increased considerably in value, and for  February and March exports had increased by nearly four percent compared with  the same two months in 1993, the bank said.
A deficit in the balance of transfer payments (also part of the current  account) fell from 6.2 billion marks in February to 2.6 billion, notably  through a reduction in German contributions to the European Union from 3.4  billion to 400 million. The contribution varies from month to month, the  statement explained.
The balance of service payments -- the third major element in the balance  of payments -- was in deficit by five billion marks in March, against a  deficit of 4.1 billions in February.
