Chechnya stated Tuesday that Russian President  Boris Yeltsin's decree imposing a state of emergency on two nearby Caucasus  districts did not pose a threat, ITAR-TASS reported.
Chechen spokesman Movladi Udugov said after examining a watered-down  version of the decree issued Monday that the order "did not for the moment  provoke any special concern" on the part of the Chechen leadership, the news  agency said.
The decree imposed a state of emergency on the Sunja district and direct  Moscow rule on the region of Malgobek, two areas that Chechnya considers part  of its territory.
Udugov said however that the final version of the decree listed the name  of villages that were to come under the presidential order and that he agreed  these localities were part of neighboring Ingushetia.
Chechen Foreign Minister Shamseddin Yussef earlier warned that the rebel  leadership would take measures to rebuff any attempt by Moscow to move troops  into the two districts, Interfax reported.
Chechnya has repeatedly stated since last week that any move by Moscow to  take control over the two regions would be tantamount to a declaration of war.
While Chechnya appeared to be backing away from a clash with Moscow,  Udugov said however that the decree imposing the state of emergency on the  districts was not justified and suggested that Yeltsin was being "forced into  widening the emergency zone so as to create tension with Chechnya."
The presidential decree was aimed at keeping a lid on the neighboring  republic of Ingushetia after fighting broke out there in October 1992 between  ethnic Ingush and Ossetians.
But Chechnya claims that Moscow is using instability in nearby Ingushetia  to tighten the noose around the rebel republic which declared independence  from Russia in 1991 and has since ignored all federal authority on its  territory.
The territorial dispute over Sunja and Malgobek, both located west of the  Chechen capital of Grozny, erupted after the republic of Chechen-Ingushetia  was divided into two separate republics in 1991.
Chechnya claims all territory encompassed within its 1934 frontiers which  preceeded the establishment of Chechen-Ingushetia under Stalin.
