The president of the breakaway Caucasus republic of  Chechnya has escaped unhurt from a car-bomb attack in which his interior  minister and deputy as well as their driver were killed, a presidential  spokesman said Saturday.
The cabinet of the Moslem republic, which has declared independence from  Russia, met in emergency session after the attack and a curfew was imposed for  a month. Sunday was declared a day of official mourning throughout the  republic in southern Russia.
Spokesman Movladi Udugov, reached by telephone, said that on Friday  evening, a remote-controlled booby-trapped Zhiguli car exploded as President  Dzhokar Dudayev's motorcade was passing.
Dudayev's Interior Minister Magomed Eldiyev, his deputy Said Ali Bateyev  in charge of criminal affairs and their driver were killed, Udugov said. They  were travelling in the first vehicle of the motorcade.
Dudayev was in the second car, which was jolted by the explosion.
According to Udugov, initial assessment of the debris from the attack  showed that the explosives were "of the same type as those used by Russian  intelligence services for sabotage and terrorism."
Tension between Grozny and Moscow has run high since October 1991 when the  tiny republic declared independence.
Udugov said that General Dudayev was returning to the Chechnya capital  Grozny from his native village of Zakan-Yurt, some 20 kilometres (12 miles)  away, when the attack took place.
It came two days after Dudayev put armed forces on alert in the breakaway  republic, warning of "an attempt by Moscow to expand the implementation of a  state of emergency" along Chechnya's border with Ingushetia "in the regions of  Sunzha and Malgobek."
Russian President Boris Yeltsin in December ahead of national elections  ordered troops to close Chechnya's borders.
Dudayev also refused to sign the Russian Federation Treaty and the  republic boycotted the Russian legislative elections.
Amid the continuing standoff with Moscow, Dudayev had periodically put the  Chechen security forces on alert.
In March, the Interfax news agency reported that Dudayev's official  residence was attacked by a guided rocket which broke a window but caused no  casualties.
The Chechen army has some 1,000 men in the national guard and can mobilise  thousands of volunteers. Every home in the Moslem republic has weapons.
Udugov said that the attack against Dudayev had no connection with a  hostage-taking which ended in the republic on Friday.
