Sushmita Sen, an 18-year-old New Delhi model and  fan of Mother Teresa, won the Miss Universe 1994 contest here Saturday to  become the first Indian to wear the prestigious beauty crown.
A mysterious explosion that killed a man about a kilometer (less than a  mile) from the contest venue and a march by feminists protesting against the  "spectacle of female flesh" failed to disrupt the pageant, televised live to  an estimated 600 million viewers.
Sen, an articulate hazel-eyed brunette who stands 1.75 meters (5ft 9in),  was a surprise winner, and will take home some 220,000 dollars in cash, prizes  and privileges, according to organizers.
She edged out first runner-up Miss Colombia (Carolina Gomez Correa), 19,  and Miss Venezuela (Minorka Mercado), 22, the overwhelming pre-finals favorite.
Asked at a post-victory press conference what cause she would like to  champion during her reign, Sen said: "If I would choose a cause, it would be  population," adding that prostitution and poverty were other issues she was  concerned about.
"I represent women from India. I don't represent a Moslem or a Hindu or a  Sikh," she emphasized as she appealed for tolerance among the diverse groups  in her country of 900 million people.
Sen succeeded Puerto Rican model Dayanara Torres to the title.
The man killed on a seawall of Manila Bay, outside the tight security  perimeter of the contest venue, was identified as Joselito Nario, a food  vendor. His hands were blown off by an improvised bomb, police said.
Whether this incident was connected with the contest was unclear, police  said Saturday.
On Thursday night a homemade bomb went off outside the Philippine  International Convention Center, where the pageant was held, damaging a  concrete rubbish bin.
Police said they were investigating the possibility of terrorist attempts  to disrupt the contest, but had found no evidence of such a bid.
The new Miss Universe wants to someday have a career in the theater,  advertising or writing.
Sen also wants to meet Mother Teresa, the famous nun who cares for the poor  in the Indian city of Calcutta, because she is "a perfect example of a person  who is totally selfless, devoted and unconditional."
She also expressed admiration for Indira Gandhi and the poetry of William  Wordsworth.
The three other finalists were Miss USA (Frances Louise Parker), Miss  Philippines (Charlene Gonzales), and Miss Slovak Republic (Silvia Lakatosova).
Press reports here earlier said communist insurgents had threatened to  disrupt the pageant, which critics denounce as an anomaly in a country where  poverty forces thousands of women into prostitution.
As the pageant finals began, some 100 feminists tried to march to the  convention center, but were kept away by police.
They later handed out streamers, accusing the government of President  Fidel Ramos -- who attended the pageant finals -- of being a "world class  pimp" for hosting the beauty contest, which has been won by two Filipinas  since 1969.
"No to sex tourism," the leaflets said. "Not only is the Miss Universe  contest in the Philippines a spectacle of female flesh. Worse, it is also a  vehicle to sell the Filipina to the world."
