Britain the the Irish Republic Thursday called for  an immediate end to IRA and loyalist violence in Northern Ireland.
They also issued a veiled warning that unless the IRA's attitude changed,  republicans would face being excluded from the peace process.
British Prime Minister John Major and Irish Premier Albert Reynolds said  they would not set a dead-line for Sinn Fein, the political wing of the  outlawed Irish Republican Army, to respond to the December 15 Anglo Irish  declaration for peace in Northern Ireland.
But, said Reynolds: "The two governments are not going to wait around, are  not waiting around, for any more prevarication on either side to stop the  violence. We continue with our own business."
He was speaking on the steps of Downing Street, following 90-minute  informal talks with Major.
Earlier Thursday Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams, speaking in Belfast,  said his party would respond to last December's declaration, after the  European elections on June 9.
Urging both Catholic republican extremists (fighting British rule) and  Protestant loyalists (who seek to maintain it) to end their campaign of  violence, Major said he and Reynolds shared "a disappointment that the  violence continues, both the IRA violence and the loyalist violence."
Reynolds said: "There is one message quite clear that we want to give --  that is that neither paramilitary organisations are going to gain anything or  bolster their position by a continuation of violence.
"It is quite clear that the next logical step if the peace process is to  be moved forward is to have a cessation of violence."
He added: "There is no single vestige of justification for the loss of one  single life on either side in either community."
If Sinn Fein wanted a couple of weeks for further debate over the joint  declaration, then neither government minded, but Reynolds insisted there must  be an end to violence immediately.
Earlier Thursday Adams said he was convinced a settlement would come out of  the peace process which began with the December 15 signing of the so-called  Downing Street declaration, which promised Sinn Fein a place in talks once the  IRA renounced violence.
"I am quite convinced that what is going to come out of this peace process  is a peace settlement -- I am quite convinced about it. It is a significant  step," Adams told BBC Radio.
Until now, Sinn Fein has neither accepted nor rejected the joint  declaration, but had asked for clarifications on specific points which the  British government has in part responded to.
Adams said the fact the government had responded was in itself "very  significant."
Questioned by reporters about Adams's earlier comments, Major said: "I see  nothing new in what he had to say this morning.
"What was quite striking was what he didn't say. He made no indication  that he was going to give up violence."
Major and Reynolds will hold a full-scale summit on their peace initiative  in mid-July.
bl
