Despite a widespread myth of affluence, many  Asian-Americans live in poverty and face obstacles to improving their  situation, said a study released Wednesday.
For every Asian-American household with an annual income of 75,000 dollars  or more, there is roughly another earning below 10,000 dollars, according to  the study by the Asian Pacific American Public Policy Institute.
Additionally, the percentage of Asian-Americans living below the poverty  line is about one-and-a-half times greater than that of whites, the study  showed.
"In contrast to the pervasive and persistent view of Asian Pacific  Americans as the affluent, successful 'model minority,' the report reveals a  much more diverse economic picture," the organization said.
"Glass ceilings," limited education and poor English trap Asians in  low-skilled positions where they do not have the time or the money to improve  their skills, according to Paul Ong, who co-authored the report.
Ong also said discrimination in a growing anti-immigrant sentiment in the  United States posed obstacles to the group.
"In many ways, the experience of Asian Pacific Americans reflects the  increasing income polarization that has afflicted everyone in this nation. As  a group (Asians) have made enormous contributions, but they also face many  unresolved problems," he said.
Southeast Asian refugees are a rapidly expanding segment of the welfare  population, but assistance programs fail to address their special needs in the  areas of language training and therapy for post-traumatic stress, the report  said.
New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles had the highest percentages of  Asian-Americans living below the poverty level, where the rates are nearly  twice as high as those for whites, it said.
"The economic 'success' of Asian Pacific Americans is by no means  guaranteed, and the future labor market experiences of both new immigrants and  the American-born will continue to be shaped by race relations, immigration  and the restructuring of the US economy," the report concluded.
(attention embargo)
