Senior Moslem clerics and PLO officials rejected  an Israeli demand on Monday for a written committment from Yasser Arafat on  the self-rule accord, charging Israeli scholars with "distorting" history.
"Moslem rulers throughout history have abided by any document they signed  with non-Moslems," insisted Sheikh Aakrameh Sabri, head of Islamic preaching  and guidance in Jerusalem.
"We do not allow any non-Moslem however educated to distort and give wrong  interpretations of Moslem history and of the Moslem religion."
Sabri and Ahmad Tibi, Arafat's political advisor, spoke to reporters after  Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin demanded a written commitment from the PLO leader  on Palestinian self-rule.
The prime minister's demand followed a speech Arafat made in South Africa  in which he said the autonomy agreement was purely a tactical move and could  be broken.
Arafat compared the deal to a pact in Islamic history called "solh  al-hodaibiya" and known as a tactical ceasefire.
Environment Minister Yossi Sarid warned that Israel "will not continue the  autonomy negotiations unless Arafat retracts his comments."
Charging that Arafat's statements were "distorted," Tibi dismissed Rabin's  demand.
"There is no need to clarify his position. There is an agreement which  clarifies, and President Arafat and the Palestinian leaders are committed to  their agreement," said Tibi.
"Arafat is not obliged to explain every morning and every evening  statements, especially if there are misunderstandings of the Islamic  religion," he added.
"He (Arafat) resorted to Islamic scholars ... so I don't see any need for  Arafat to give a written message."
Tibi defended Arafat's comparision between the hodaibiya pact and the  autonomy agreement, saying both were temporary deals.
"According to the Oslo accord, the Gaza-Jericho agreement is temporary,  there will be another agreement on the final status in which we will demand  East Jerusalem as capital of a Palestinian state."
Asked if his statement reflected Arafat's official position, Tibi only  said "I am an advisor to Arafat."
Saeb Erekat, a member of the new Palestinian authority for the autonomous  regions of Jericho and Gaza, also attacked Rabin's demand.
"Rabin should know that especially concerning Jerusalem, the measures he  is taking on the ground, creating new facts, are the real danger to the peace  process.
"If he wants to speak of danger, danger is not declarations but doings ...  creating (Jewish) settlements, expropriation of land, the seige on Jerusalem,"  Erekat fired back.
The hodaibiya pact was signed by the Koraish tribe which controlled Mecca  in 628 and Prophet Mohammad, but scrapped after the tribe violated the  agreement, according to Moslem scholars.
