Rik Smits did not bother to hang  around for the party he started.
The 2.1-meter (7-foot) Dutch center scored 27 points here Thursday,  leading Indiana past Atlanta 98-79 to eliminate the top seed Hawks from the  National Basketball Association playoffs.
The Pacers won the best-of-seven quarter-final series four games to two  and advanced to meet the winner between New York and three-time defending  champion Chicago. New York lead the Bulls 3-2.
"He was unstoppable," Indiana coach Larry Brown said. "He didn't worry  about double teams. He just went up and shot the ball. Rik has been struggling  a little bit, but his play tonight was incredible."
Smits, criticized in newspapers for poor play in a game five loss, left  the locker room without talking to reporters. He also missed an ecstatic  celebration by a team that never before won a playoff series.
But Smits was a popular topic of conversation.
"Rik was the key. He gave us that spark," Indiana's Reggie Miller said.  "Everyone backed him up. He was showing emotion and he lifted us. When they  have to close in on him, it opens things up for us outside."
Smits made 12 of 16 shots from the field. He scored 11 points in the third  quarter, when Indiana extended their lead from 38-35 at half-time to 72-51  entering the fourth quarter.
"He was pretty much unstoppable," outmatched Atlanta center Jon Koncak  said. "We fought for position down low. He came out and got that team going.  Give him a lot of credit he played great."
Atlanta, which had the best Eastern Conference record, continued a string  of having never advanced past the second round of the playoffs in 17 tries  over the past 25 years.
"We couldn't stop anyone," Hawks' coach Lenny Wilkens said. "We couldn't  hit our shots. We have played hard all year long, though. Our players have  nothing to hang their head about. We have to learn and build on this."
Indiana, the East's fifth seed, had never won a playoff series before this  year. But the Pacers have aleady eliminated Orlando and Atlanta and are ready  for more.
"We're not even supposed to be here so we're just going to have fun," said  Miller, who wants to face the Knicks in the next round. He covets a rematch  with New York's John Starks, who headbutted him in last year's first round.
"You can't duck anybody," Miller said. "We want to play the best and they  are supposed to win. I want the Knicks."
Derrick McKey scored six points and Byron Scott added five in a 19-5 run  over the final 4:32 of the third period. Atlanta made only one basket in the  span and missed 6-of-9 free throws.
Smits, shrugging off fouls and triple-team defense, overwhelmed every  combination Atlanta used against him.
"He is so tall and when he shoots it is hard to stop him," Wilkens said.  "He took it to us."
Smits led all players with 12 first-half points. He sank 6 of 7 shots in  the half, setting off the loudest cheers of the game with hook shots, baseline  jumpers and turnarounds over outmatched Atlanta center Jon Koncak.
"Rik was fired up after not playing so well in game five," McKey said.  "When he is playing well, things go well for us."
Smits scored six points during a 13-2 Indiana run over 6:26 that moved the  Pacers ahead 32-25 midway through the second quarter.
Miller scored 18 points while McKey added 17 points and 10 rebounds, Scott  finished with 14 while Dale Davis had 10 points and 10 rebounds.
Mookie Blaylock led Atlanta with 23 points while Danny Manning added 21  and 10 rebounds.
