Japan's top shipping company, Nippon Yusen KK (NYK),  said Friday its pre-tax profit tumbled 56.2 percent from a year earlier to  6.03 billion yen (59 million dollars) in the year to March.
The shipping affiliate of the Mitsubishi group said revenue dropped 7.7  percent to 531 billion yen in the same period, depressed by reduced revenue  from its liner and tramp operations.
NYK forecast a modest increase in profit to seven billion yen for the  current year with revenue edging up towards 540 billion yen.
"In the coming fiscal year, the Japanese shipping market is likely to face  persistent difficulties, including anxiety about further rises in the value of  the yen and delay in economic recovery," the company said.
NYK said liner revenues dropped 6.6 percent to 258 billion yen during the  latest year as tramp revenue sagged 14 percent to 202 billion yen. But tanker  revenues were up 11.8 percent at 61 billion yen and other revenue edged up 0.6  percent to 10 billion yen.
"Freight volumes in container services increased slightly on North  American, European and other routes, thanks to the recovery of the US economy  and plentiful exports from the Asian region," the company said.
"However, the company's business results remained sluggish due to drops in  freight levels caused by fierce competition and the high value of the yen."
NYK said the rationalisation of vessel deployment and the acquisition of  favourable shipping contracts enabled the company to achieve expected results  in its conventional services and bulk shipping divisions.
But bulk shipping activities were adversely affected by lower demand for  iron ore in Europe and Japan, reduced grain shipments to the former Soviet  Union and decreased movements of paper and pulp.
"The sudden rise in the value of the yen greatly reduced the number of  automobiles being exported from Japan, especially to Europe. This in turn  significantly reduced both freight volumes and revenues," NYK said, adding  that the impact was minimised by cutting costs and participating in cross  trades.
"Although the world tanker market was depressed due to over-tonnage created  by newly-built tankers, NYK was able to maintian stable earnings in this field  because its fleet is mainly deployed under long-term contracts," it said.
