Defending champions Malaysia powered into the  Thomas Cup final by beating China in Tuesday's semi-finals to scotch claims  they could only win at home.
However, Indonesia appear to be on the verge of pulling off a double.  Their women scored an upset win over South Korea to reach the Uber Cup final  and their men's side play South Korea in Wednesday's other Thomas Cup  semi-final.
Both Malaysia and Indonesia secured winning 3-0 leads on Tuesday before  finishing their matches 4-1.
Indonesia's surprising win over the favourites South Korea secured a berth  in the women's final on Friday against China or Sweden.
The Thomas Cup final is to be played on Saturday.
"This victory proves that Malaysia is not a home winner. We are ready to  meet any team," Malaysian team manager Punch Gunalan said.
Malaysia, winners in Kuala Lumpur in 1992, were nicknamed "home winners"  because none of their players had won trophies in overseas championships.
Malaysian number one Rashid Sidek came from 7-13 down against Liu Jun to  win the first game 18-16. The Chinese player fought back onto level terms by  winning the second game 15-12 but then could win only two more points.
Malaysian pair Cheah Soon Kit and Soo Beng Kiang shook off a sluggish  start to beat Chen Kang and Chen Hongyong 15-17, 15-6, 15-6.
Then Ong Ewe Hock overpowered Dong Jiong 15-11, 15-6 to ensure his team a  place in the final.
Indonesia's Uber Cup team, with massive home support, brushed aside the  Koreans.
Yuliani Sentosa, the Indonesian No 3 preferred to Yuni Kartika following  the number two's loss to Denmark in the preliminary round, clinched victory in  style.
Sentosa, who lost to Ra Kyun Min in the 1992 Asian championship, outplayed  the Korean 11-3, 12-9.
Susi Susanti, the world's number one, had given the home side a good start  by quickly seeing off Korean number two Kim Ji Hyun 11-4, 11-2.
Korea's team manager Han Sung Gi said they did not field their number one  Bang Soo Hyun because of her head-to-head record of 10-2 in Susanti's favour.
"It surprised me that Korea did not field Bang Soo Hyun," Susanti said  after her match. "When I looked at the draw I was sure Indonesia would lead  3-0."
Tenacious play by Lili Tampi and Finarsih forced the Korean pair Shim Eun  Jung and Jang Hye Ock into errors for a 15-9, 15-5 win.
It was sweet revenge for the Indonesian pair who lost to the Koreans in  the 1994 All England Championships in March.
Bang later teamed up with Gil Young Ah as the second doubles to get  Korea's only point against Eliza and Zelin Resiana.
Fourteen-year-old reserve Mia Audina made it 4-1 for Indonesia by beating  Lee Joo Hyun 9-11, 11-3, 11-2.
