Friday's French Open notebook:
Sampras trouble
At least one person would be relieved if world number one Pete Sampras was  to make an early exit from the French Open. "There is no doubt he is the  player who gives me the most problems," says Diane Bourely-Medecin, the  translator for the press at Roland Garros for the last 11 years.
"He has a very soft voice and he uses a lot of American expressions that I  find hard to understand," she says.
Ironically, the players who give her least problems are not native English  speakers. "The Germans Michael Stich and Boris Becker seem to think in a very  structured way and what they say is usually very easy to translate."
Being alongside players within minutes of their victories or defeats gives  Bourely-Medecin a unique insight into their temparaments and she ranks Jim  Courier, an enthusiastic student of French who always listens carefully to the  translation, as the friendlies of the current crop.
"Two years ago he was very tense, now he seems a lot more relaxed," she  says, confirming many people's revised impressions of the 1991 and 1992  champion.
While Courier has dropped his angry young man persona, the stress of being  a major contender is clearly getting to Andrei Medvedev: "He was a lot funnier  last year." (AFP)
Unpatriotic Courier
Jim Courier may be an American but he is no fan of Flushing Meadow, the  New York venue for the US Open. Asked to rank the central courts at the four  grand slam tournaments, Courier said: "Wimbledon I'd have to rate no. 1  because it is what it is. This is no. 2 for feeling. I'd rate Australia no. 3  and the US Open a distant fourth.
"In fact I think I'd rate the number one court at Wimbledon over the US  Open centre court. (AFP)
Girls triumph in battle of the balls
A historic breakthrough for women's, or rather girls', rights has been  made at this French Open. For the first time, girls make up a majority of the  ball persons employed at Roland Garros. Out of 150, 80 are of the female  persuasion. (AFP)
One for the road
Ronald Agenor, the Haitian who is based in Bordeaux, France, had a secret  weapon in his two-day battle with David Prinosil. Despite an overnight break  with the match delicately poised at 9-9 in the fifth set, Agenor got a good  night's sleep, largely thanks to a few glasses of wine from the region he has  made his home. He planned a similar pre-match build up to his clash with Sergi  Bruguera: the defending champion has been warned. (AFP)
am94
