Fierce battles between Rwanda's army and rebel  fighters shook Kigali Saturday, preventing relief planes from landing and  halting United Nations' efforts to pave the way for a new peacekeeping mission.
Rebel headquarters in the old parliament building took a vicious pounding  from government mortars and howitzers, a UN spokesman said.
The rebels responded with a small arms attack on army positions around the  airport, spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
He said the army had agreed Saturday to allow the UN to establish and  control a neutral zone at the airport, Rwanda's sole remaining lifeline after  a six-week bloodbath in which up to half a million people have been butchered.
Fighting has kept the airport closed for three days running, blocking UN  planes carrying desperately needed food and medicine.
Shells slammed into the arrivals terminal and near the control tower  Saturday, wrecking six UN vehicles, Kabia said.
The artillery duels forced UN military commander General Romeo Dallaire to  cancel a meeting with commanders of the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front on  Saturday to seek their agreement to place the airport under UN control before  the first of 5,500 peacekeepers arrive.
The initial 500 soldiers, from Ghana, are expected within a week, but only  if both sides agree to let them secure the airport, UN officials said amid  mounting doubt that the UN will muster all the troops it needs, diplomats said.
"He (Dallaire) couldn't move out because of the shooting," Kabia said by  telephone from Kigali. The boom of mortars and the crackle of small arms fire  could be heard as he spoke.
"It's impossible to tell who is advancing, if anyone," Kabia said, adding  that he was unsure whether the fighting signalled the start of a long-expected  final push by the rebels to seize control of Kigali.
Dallaire is shuttling between the two sides trying to win agreement on the  role of the new UN peacekeeping force which the Security Council voted to  establish last week but which has yet to be deployed.
Special UN envoy Iqbal Riza of Pakistan was expected to reach Kigali by  road Sunday or Monday to seek the cooperation of both sides.
Few countries have pledged troops, apparently fearing that the UN might be  embarking on another doomed African venture after failing to end factional  fighting in Somalia despite a long and costly mission in which more than 80  foreign soldiers have been killed, diplomats said.
The planned force will not intervene in fighting between the rebels,  predominantly from the minority Tutsi tribe, and the Hutu-led government  forces.
But they will try to stop extremist Hutu militias armed with machetes and  clubs from hacking to death anyone suspected of being a Tutsi or an opposition  supporter, the main victims of the frenzied bloodletting unleashed by the  April 6 death of president Juvenal Habyarimana in a mysterious plane crash.
The rebels have denied accusations by the UN High Commissioner for  Refugees that they had fired on refugees trying to cross the border to  Tanzania and had massacred civilians.
Three thousand terrified civilians, mainly Hutus but also Tutsis, are  crossing the border daily to seek sanctuary in Tanzania.
"Many women are giving birth on the roadside, and they're still flooding  in," a Red Cross worker said.
"We've got 280,000 people in the Benako camp, and we think there are tens  of thousands more in small groups scattered throughout the area," he said.
In the sprawling tented city that has sprung up at Benako, near the  northern Tanzanian town of Ngara, people are desperate, but not yet dying.
Food is being distributed and malnutrition rates are still low, relief  officials said.
But refugees in the overcrowded camp, originally conceived for only 75,000  people, have to queue for up to eight hours for weekly rations, and health  officials say there is a high risk of epidemics.
Hundreds of thousands of people are fleeing central Rwanda amid the  upsurge in fighting, the Red Cross said in Geneva.
At least two million of the small central African country's seven million  people have been made homeless.
