An ally of President Fidel Ramos won a court order  Friday banning a private seminar here next week on East Timor in a move that  appeared to defuse a diplomatic row between the Philippines and Indonesia.
The lower court, which put a 20-day hold on the May 31-June 3 conference  on Indonesian military abuses in East Timor, ordered the respondents to argue  their case at a court hearing June 10.
"We rejoice," Indonesian Foreign Ministry spokesman Irawan Abidin told AFP  in Jakarta, adding that the ban may be extended.
Ramos, who had initially said it would be unconstitutional to ban a  private assembly, started to buckle under Indonesian pressure last week by  banning foreign participants from the meeting, saying their presence would be  "inimical to the national interest."
Jose Laurel, a former ambassador to Japan, obtained the court order in the  name of the newly formed Philippines-Indonesia Friendship Society. His  petition said the meeting would violate a treaty binding Association of  Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) members to respect each other's territorial  integrity.
The Philippines and Indonesia, along with Brunei, Malaysia, Singapore and  Thailand are members of ASEAN.
The conference on human rights in the former Portuguese territory, annexed  by Indonesia in 1976, has stoked Jakarta's anger and spurred it to retaliate  against Manila.
Indonesia cancelled a ministerial visit here, withdrew from a regional  business conference, and threatened to turn its back on an earlier pledge to  host next month the resumption of peace talks between the Philippine  government and Moslem guerrillas.
Human rights activist Renato Constantino, one of the local organizers,  told AFP they were consulting their lawyers, and left open the possibility  that they would disregard the court order, in which case every participant  would risk arrest.
"We are not going to surrender our right to free speech and assembly just  like that," he said.
The organizers, who had invited exiled members of the Fretilin guerrilla  group, were to have conducted the meeting at the University of the Philippines  -- a state-run suburban Manila college with a dissident tradition.
