Japan's five biggest steelmakers, buckling under the  weight of a prolonged economic slowdown and a stronger yen, announced Friday  combined pre-tax losses of more than one billion dollars for the year to March.
Four of the companies -- NKK Corp., Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd., Kobe  Steel Ltd. and Kawasaki Steel Corp. -- suspended year-end dividends. And  although market leader Nippon Steel Corp. managed to cough up 2.5 yen for its  shareholders, the pay out was down from 3.5 yen a year earlier.
While none gave profit forecasts for the coming year, the five companies,  which are facing intense competition from South Korean steelmakers in their  home market, agreed that business conditions would remain extremely difficult.
"The operating environment will become more severe due to the continuing  recession in Japan, declining demand for steel in exporting industries and  decreased exports to China," said Sumitomo, which suffered the biggest loss.
Nippon Steel announced a pre-tax loss of 18.4 billion yen (179 million  dollars), reversing a profit of 28.9 billion yen a year earlier. Sales fell  almost 10 percent to 2,160 billion yen in the same period.
The top steelmaker projected a consolidated loss of 37 billion yen for the  latest year, reversing a group profit of 29 billion yen a year earlier.  Consolidated revenue was forecast to fall seven percent to 2,750 billion yen.
NKK announced a 24.2 billion yen loss, compared with a profit of 4.1  billion yen the previous year. Sales fell 7.8 percent to 1,200 billion yen.
Sumitomo meanwhile suffered a 33 billion yen loss, reversing a profit of  5.3 billion yen. Sales fell 5.9 percent to 1,043 billion yen.
The company said it "foresees the recession continuing in the year ahead"  and also warned that "private-sector capital investment will remain depressed  due to disappointing corporate profits."
Kobe Steel announced a 3.4 billion yen loss and forecast further losses of  20 billion yen in the first half of the current year.
The loss at the parent company, which reversed a profit of 14.5 billion yen  a year earlier, was accompanied by a forecast for a consolidated loss of nine  billion yen in the same period, compared with a 10.4 billion profit previously.
Kobe Steel blamed Japan's protracted recession and the yen's appreciation  for its poor performance in the latest year. While it failed to make  projections for the full year ahead, the company stressed the "difficult"  business environment in which it was operating.
"As the economic outlook is uncertain, capital investment in the private  sector is anticipated to be curtailed and demand for other durable goods is  expected to continue being weak," it said in a statement said.
Kawasaki Steel suffered a pre-tax loss of 32.3 billion yen, compared with  a profit of 7.5 billion yen a year earlier. The company also suffered a record  net loss of 39.1 billion yen, blaming valuation losses for subsidiary company  stocks and employment costs related to retirement benefits.
Overall sales declined 7.9 percent from a year earlier to 1,005 billion  yen, depressed by reduced revenue from steel and chemicals which offset  increased revenue from engineering and other activities.
"Decreasing domestic sales volume and falling prices put extreme pressure  on earnings," Kawasaki said, adding that Japan's recession was further  exacerbated by a stronger yen, a cool summer and delays in public-works  projects.
