Sarajevo marked its 100th day of a ceasefire  Friday to the sound of steady gunfire.
UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR) spokesman Rob Annink praised the success of  the truce between Bosnia's warring Moslems and Serbs, while noting that  between 100 and 200 violations of the truce were recorded daily.
The 100-day anniversary of the ceasefire agreement signed February 10 was  greeted with "the usual ceasefire violations" in the capital, including heavy  machine-gun fire, he said.
Major Annink said, however, that the violations did not amount to a breach  of the 20-kilometer (12-mile) heavy weapons exclusion zone imposed by the  United Nations around Sarajevo.
Annink said the ceasefire violations were perpetrated with "rocket  launchers, hand grenades, mines, machine-guns and small arms," but he added  that these "do not pose a direct threat to the city."
Although the city itself may not be threatened by the continuous  violations, several of its residents seek treatement for bullet wounds at  local hospitals each day.
Soldiers from both camps -- the mainly Moslem Bosnian army and Bosnian  Serbs -- are also killed daily by sniper fire.
Meanwhile, the UN office in Vienna said a conference to launch a  530-million-dollar rebuilding project for Sarajevo's infrastructure and public  services, would be held in Vienna next week.
Thirty-one countries are expected to send representatives to the two-day  event aimed at co-ordinating plans for the beseiged Bosnian capital and  launching an appeal for funds.
In other developments, Bosnian army spokesman Colonel Akrem Advic told AFP  in the northern city of Tuzla that Serb forces were massing troop and arms  reinforcements to counter recent government advances in the Vlasenica region  midway between Sarajevo and Tuzla.
The Bosnian army offensive has gained control of an area 10 kilometres by  five kilometers (six miles by three miles) in the region and if it were to  continue it would give the government near total control of the strategic  Sarajevo-Olovo-Tuzla road.
Advic predicted a Serb counter-offensive and also accused the Serbs of  using toxic gas shells in fighting Thursday. UNPROFOR Friday told AFP no  evidence had been found to back up the claims.
Annink said the Bosnian army was also continuing offensives along several  other fronts in central Bosnia and said UN peacekeepers counted 140 explosions  Thursday in the Kladanj region.
The situation was also tense in the regions of Travnik and Turbe where  Annink said the Bosnian army burned a Roman Catholic church. Roman Catholicism  is the religion of Bosnia's Croats.
The latest fighting came as several western countries threatened this week  to pull their troops out of ex-Yugoslavia unless there was a breakthrough in  the peace process.
France, Spain and Britain, who together supply around 35 percent of the  33,253 UNPROFOR troops stationed in the former Yugoslavia, also said they were  reconsidering their role here in light of the continued fighting.
Meanwhile, Advic accused Bosnian Croat "bandits" of blocking a convoy of  about 100 trucks loaded with humanitarian food aid south of Sarajevo for the  last two days.
Advic said the convoy, with 200 tonnes of food supplies, had been heading  to the hard-hit Tuzla region in northeastern Bosnia but had been held up near  Grude, south of Sarajevo by Mafia-like criminals.
