French Defense Minister Francois Leotard announced  Tuesday that France would cut its peacekeeping presence by more than one-third  in the former Yugoslavia, pulling out 2,500 soldiers by the end of the year.
"We have begun a process of withdrawal of a certain number of battalions  we have there, first the one in Glina in Krajina (Serb-controlled territory in  Croatia) and then the one in Bihac" in northwest Bosnia, Leotard said in a  radio interview.
The foreign ministry, however, issued a statement after Leotard's  announcement saying that the troop withdrawal from Bihac -- one of six  UN-protected safe havens -- would take place only if a diplomatic breakthrough  is not reached by the end of the year.
"We have already said that if ongoing diplomatic efforts to negotiate a  settlement fail, we may have to reconsider our position," Foreign Ministry  spokesman Richard Duque said.
He added that "all this would have to be worked out in advance with the UN  Secretary General (Boutros Boutros-Ghali) and our main allies in the UN  Protection Force (UNPROFOR)."
In the Croatian capital Zagreb, UNPROFOR spokesman Matthew Nerzig, said  meanwhile "the decision to withdraw from Bihac was made quite a while ago, we  were informed of that and it comes as no surprise."
He said the withdrawal would begin by mid-June.
France currently has some 6,800 troops stationed in ex-Yugoslavia.
A senior military source said Tuesday the pull-out from Glina was planned  for June 15.
The withdrawal of the French battalion from Glina was announced a few  months ago by the French government. At the time, it said 1,000 more troops  would be sent to the Bosnian capital but that there would be no overall  increase because of the Glina pull-out.
But Leotard went further Tuesday announcing the retreat of the French  battalion of 1,200 men in the Bihac pocket, probably at the end of a six-month  mission that just started for the latest group there.
A military source said France has been pushing UNPROFOR to replace the  French battalion there by one from another country.
Duque stressed that "the fact that a French battalion is pulling out of  one zone does not mean that UNPROFOR is leaving that zone."
The move came after Foreign Minister Alain Juppe threatened to pull out all  French troops -- which make up the largest contingent of the UN Protection  Force (UNPROFOR) in former Yugoslavia -- if progress towards a peace  settlement was not made.
A total French withdrawal could lead to the collapse of the UN  humanitarian mission in Bosnia and the world body's efforts to protect the six  mainly Moslem "safe areas" from being over-run by Serb forces.
The French UN troops are deployed in both Croatia -- the UN Protection  Force headquarters are in Zagreb -- and Bosnia. There are also French naval  forces patrolling the Adriatic sea and French aircraft based in Italy.
Leotard's announcement of a partial disengagement followed an earlier  limited retreat last year of part of a logistical support battalion France had  made available to UNPROFOR headquarters in Zagreb.
UNPROFOR officials in Zagreb said Tuesday that they understood French  "frustrations" with the situation in Bosnia and added that the French  government had sent no official communication concerning the withdrawal.
"We certainly understand the frustrations of the French government who  have long been the leading troop contributing country in this operation," said  UNPROFOR spokesman Matthew Nerzig. "Whether or not the French government  chooses to continue its participation, which is much valued... is strictly  their own decision."
