Russian writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn's  first stop on his return from exile was most often the end of the road for  those banished to Soviet prison camps -- a past not easy for the city to shake.
Magadan, now trying to carve its future as a Siberian gateway to trade  with Alaska and Japan, still remains better known as the capital of the  dreaded Gulag -- Glavnoye Upravleniye Lagerei -- the general administration of  Soviet prison camps.
Detainees were shipped into this far eastern port for farming out to  prison camps that dotted the barren Siberian landscape in the surrounding  Kolmya region.
Though the Gulag was officially banned in 1956 under Nikita Khrushchev and  the Soviet Union was dissolved two years ago, a stigma still marks Magadan,  where Solzhenitsyn is scheduled to land Friday on his return home from 20  years of exile.
The city's port was a key nuclear facility and Soviet submarine base, but  the old military industry is no longer what it was.
And the gold mines that thrived in Kolyma with free labor from the prison  camps now appear to be feeding the coffers of local traffickers and Mafiosi  linked to foundering state enterprises, while the local fishing industry,  struggling to survive in seas frozen for half the year, fare little better.
Magadan lies nearly 7,000 kilometers (4,375 miles) from Moscow, its  isolation embodied in the term locals use for the rest of Russia -- "the  continent."
Only some new "adventurers" exploiting trade with east Asia and Alaska  appear to have prospered in this cold, inhospitable location. But the economic  profits from trade with Asia and America remain weak.
The city itself was built by the "zeks," as the prisoners were known. It  gives the impression of a vast vacant lot dotted by small, drab buildings,  crooked barracks, a few modern structures and the concrete shells of buildings  frozen in mid-construction.
"When they save up enough money, residents leave the region," said Zoia, a  Magadan native and lawyer who is the daughter of a one-time camp inmate.
The bonuses and big salaries offered from 1950 to 1980 to attrack  "pioneers" ready to sacrifice comfort for extra pay are a thing of the past.  The average salary in Magadan today is about the same as in Moscow -- but  everything is more expensive because of transport costs to the remote outpost.
There are no rail lines to Magadan, and the main roadway crosses 3,000  kilometers (1,875 miles) through dessert and hinterland and small villages  built on the remains of old prison camps or around gold and uranium mines.
"A half-million zeks died building this roadway," said Miron Etlis, a  representative of a human rights group called Memorial. "There is a saying  that there is a deadman under each meter (yard) of roadway."
Today, the "best paid job in Magadan is working as a truck driver along  the highway," said Yuri Michenko, a truck driver who in the Soviet days was  sentenced for "speculation."
"The road is winding, full of potholes, vehicles break down, it's at least  minus 50 (Celsius) in winter and it's impossible to drive more than 100  kilometers (62 miles) a day," he said.
Though Khrushchev promised a boom for Magadan in the 1950s, it never came.  Unitl 1956, the region was still administered by the Gulag -- the people,  production, worksites and the entire economy of the Kilyma depended on the  NKVD, the old Soviet political police.
Some 15 million people were sent off to the prison camps during the height  of the Stalinist period.
They were followed later on by some of the Soviet era's best known  dissidents, including Varlam Chalamov, Evguenia Ginzburg, Andrei Amalrik.
Even today, the word "Kolyma" in Russian remains synonomous with "Gulag."
The city, perhaps mindful that it will never fully erase the legacy, set  up its own musuem on the camps three years ago, with photos of former "zeks"  and other reminders of daily life in the camps and mines.
