In the Dominican capital, Santo Domingo, press reports said the border  with Haiti had been sealed, and that UN monitors were in place, backed by  Dominican army troops.
The head of the UN team, Alexander Marinovic, travelled by helicopter to  the border Saturday to oversee the monitoring effort.
But Sunday, people toting small plastic containers full of oil walked  across the border in Malpasse and other areas, or took small boats across Lake  Azui, which separates the two countries on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola.
Dominican President Joaquin Balaguer, who was leading in his country's  presidential vote count from last Monday's election when it was suspended amid  opposition fraud charges, opposes the embargo on Haiti but formally is  cooperating.
No winner has been announced, and with the Dominican electoral board due  to begin a vote recount Wednesday, Balaguer supporters launched a campaign  charging the United States was trying to turn their country into a massive  Haitian refugee camp.
In a publicity blitz with clear racial undertones, they allege Washington  secretly is backing top opposition candidate Jose Franciso Pena Gomez, who is  black, and that the United States ultimately wants to force the two countries  to merge into one in which it would have greater influence.
Pena Gomez seeks to become the first black Dominican president this  century and Balaguer is white.
US Vice President Al Gore dismissed concerns Sunday about the continued  flow of contraband fuel over the border despite US efforts to get the  Dominican Republic to enforce the sanctions.
"I think it's premature to discount the effectiveness of these tough new  sanctions," he said in an interview with CBS television.
A statement issued by the government late Saturday said Jonaissant, who  was installed by the military last week despite international protests, has  ordered the courts to enforce an 1980 decree which calls for prosecuting  anyone organizing trips for potential refugees.
The numbers of Haitians seeking asylum in the United States has risen  sharply in the past few weeks following US President Bill Clinton's  announcement of a change in the policy of immediately repatriating those  picked up at sea.
The policy shift, which will allow refugees to have their requests  processed at sea or in third countries, has not gone into effect but sources  here say it has prompted many to attempt the trip.
