The authorities in Sanaa on Thursday said they had  rejected a Saudi call for the UN Security Council to try to end the three-week  conflict in Yemen through a ceasefire and arms embargo.
Planning Minister Abdelkarim al-Iryani told reporters here the Saudi  proposal constituted "interference in Yemeni internal affairs."
He said Saudi Arabia had sent a proposal to the UN Security Council  chairman Wednesday calling for discussion of a series of points aimed at  ending the civil war, which erupted on May 5 between forces loyal to President  Ali Abdallah Saleh and those of his southern rival Ali Salem al-Baid.
Saudi Arabia proposed a ceasefire, an arms embargo on Yemen, the sending  of a fact-finding mission to the country, continuation of the dialogue opened  between Sanaa and some southern leaders and a pledge by the warring parties  not to use force to resolve their dispute, Iryani said.
He warned that if the Saudi proposal was adopted "the Arab countries will  pay the price in the future."
"I hope the proposal fails," he said, adding that most members of the  Security Council were "not interested in it."
Iryani said Saleh rejected the Saudi proposal during a meeting with the  US ambassador Arthur Hughes on Wednesday.
UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said Wednesday he hoped member  countries would call for UN intervention in the conflict, noting that the  Security Council could not act until requested.
Sources at UN headquarters said Saudi Arabia had had diplomatic contacts  with several members of the Security Council about the Yemeni situation.
Iryani warned: "If the Security Council interferes in Yemen's internal  affairs we will close our channel of contacts with the unity leaders in the  Yemen Socialist Party (YSP)," the main southern party led by Baid.
Iryani announced Wednesday that the Sanaa government had begun a dialogue  with senior YSP officials "who believe in unity," in a bid to achieve a  political solution to the conflict.
Presidential council member Salem Saleh Muhammad was "the main contact,"  he said.
Baid has declared a breakway Yemen Democratic Republic in the south, but  the north refuses to end the four year union.
