Israel praised itself Saturday on the "bold and  pinpoint" operation in which it seized a pro-Iranian Islamic leader from  Lebanon in a bid to win back an Israeli airman missing since 1986.
"The operation's main aim was to gain information about Ron Arad's fate as  we have heard nothing about what has happened to him since he was captured,"  said Oded Ben Ami, a spokesman for Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin.
Mustafa Dirani was seized from his home in a daring dawn raid on the  village of Qsarnabaa in the Bekaa Valley, an Israeli army spokesman said.
A government source said the raid had been authorised at a special meeting  of the inner cabinet on Thursday.
The plan had been proposed by the chief of staff and intelligence services.
Two helicopters were used in the operation at Qsarnabaa, 75 kilometers (45  miles) northeast of Beirut, that coincided with the most important Moslem  feast of Al-Adha, Lebanese police said.
Arad, whose F-14 fighter bomber was shot down over south Lebanon by  Palestinian anti-aircraft fire, is one of six Israelis missing in Lebanon  since 1982 but the only one still thought to be alive.
Dirani, described by Israel as the leader of a small group called the  "Resistance of the Faithful," was formerly chief of security for the  pro-Syrian Amal militia who captured Arad on the ground.
"This flawless, very bold and pinpoint operation allowed us to seize a man  who is very dangerous for Israel. It shows our army has a long reach and can  do the impossible to retrieve our missing," Foreign Minister Shimon Peres told  Israeli radio.
And the Chief-of-Staff Ehud Barak congratulated the Israeli commandos on  their return, saying Arad's family had been informed of Dirani's capture.
Israeli military sources said Dirani had been taken to Israel and was  being kept in an undisclosed hideout.
It is hoped Dirani, who has close links to the Iranian-backed Hezbollah,  will confirm whether Arad is being held by Iranian Revolutionary Guards, the  Pasdarans.
Iran has denied holding Dirani, but the leader of the pro-Syrian Amal  militia Nabih Berry, now the speaker of parliament, charged four years ago  that Dirani had sold Arad to Iran for half a million dollars.
Opposition Likud party leader Benjamin Netanyahu also praised the  government for having agreed to the operation and the army for its success.
The right-wing opposition and the families of the missing have actively  campaigned against the release of Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli jails,  while they still have no news of their relatives.
Israel has agreed to release 5,000 Palestinian prisoners by signing the  self-rule accord with the PLO on May 4 in Cairo.
It was the second time an Israeli commando seized a Moslem fundamentalist  leader in Lebanon.
In an almost identical operation in July 1989, Israeli commandos snatched  Sheikh Abdel Karim Obeid, a cleric and member of Hezbollah, from his home in  south Lebanon. Obeid is still being held.
Both Dirani and Obeid will now be vital bargaining chips for the Israelis  as they try to unravel the mystery surrounding Arad's disapperance.
Five other soldiers are reported missing, three in the battle with the  Syrian army for Sultan Yaacub in the south of the Bekaa valley in July 1982,  and two others during an ambush in February 1986 in southern Lebanon.
Dirani's capture comes as Israel and Lebanon have been involved in peace  negotiations since October 1991.
