French businessman Didier Pineau-Valencienne, who  was detained here Friday on charges of fraud, could be released on Wednesday  because of his good cooperation with investigators, police said here Tuesday.
Pineau-Valencienne, chairman of France's Schneider SA, an electrical  engineering group, has been charged with forgery, fraud, abuse of confidence,  embezzlement, falsifying of annual accounts and breach of accounting rules.
Also arrested on Friday on similar charges, excluding abuse of confidence,   was Italian banker Valentino Foti. Belgian magistrates are due to decide  early Wednesday on whether to release the two men.
A Belgian financial investigator said: "Mr. Pineau-Valencienne has  admitted many things."
The investigator added: "He is trying to minimise his role but he has the  final responsibility for the infractions he has been charged with. If he had  not played an active role in these affairs, he would not be in prison."
The Belgian authorities have also sent investigators to Switzerland and  France to confirm evidence and interview witnesses, a judicial source said.
Meanwhile, in Paris, the Schneider group issued a statement denying "false  rumours" that it or its chairman had been involved in the laundering of drugs  money.
And the French Minister of Enterprises, Alain Madelin, said  Pineau-Valencienne was "a man of honour" who could not be tarred with the same  brush as other French businessmen currently under investigation.
This was an apparent reference to Bernard Tapie, implicated in a range of  financial irregularities, and Pierre Berge, former president of the fashion  house Yves Saint Laurent, who was charged Monday with insider trading.
Madelin said in a radio interview that Pineau-Valencienne had been caught  up in an affair involving "sub-sub-affiliates" which he could not have been  expected to follow.
Pineau-Valenciennes was detained after arriving here last week to answer  questions about two Schneider affiliates in Belgium, Cofibel and Cofimines.
An investigation of the two firms had been launched in October after  minority shareholders complained about the price of a take-over offer for  their shares made by Schneider.
The probe was expanded to cover the activities of a Belgian investment  firm, Financiere Patience-Beaujonc (PB Finance), in which Schneider had a 25  percent share.
PB Finance, an affiliate of Cofibel, has been linked through Foti with an  Italian-Swiss bank, Fimo SA, which is suspected by Italian and US police of  laundering drug money.
Pineau-Valencienne has maintained that Schneider's investment in PB  Finances was organised by a Belgian businessman, Jean Verdoot, who was killed  in a plane crash in March last year.
Subsequently, Schneider placed PB Finances under judicial management. The  entire affair is likely to come under the public spotlight here on Wednesday  and Thursday when Cofimines and Cofibel hold their general meetings.
A minority shareholder, Belgian businessman Andre de Barsy, has said that  he intended to ask new questions about their management by Schneider.
Meanwhile, several other leadinmg French politicians have leapt to the  defence of Pineau-Valencienne.
Former President Valery Giscard-d'Estaing declared himself a personal  friend of the Schneider chief and warned that his detention before conviction  was a serious affair.
Jacques Barrot, president of the French national Assembly's finance  commission, said Pineau-Valenciennes was a man of "rigour and honesty" who  could not be linked with "shady businessmen and the golden boys".
Former Socialist prime minister Edith Cresson, herself a former Schneider  employee, said Pineau-Valenciennes was "extremely respectable" with a great  sense of duty and the national interest.
bur-gb
d1608 31Mai94
