UN peacekeepers to be sent back to Rwanda will be  powerless to staunch ethnic bloodletting unless they deploy speedily with  armoured vehicles and helicopters, a UN official warned Tuesday.
Abdul Kabia, executive director of the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda  (UNAMIR), welcomed a UN Security Council decision to deploy 5,500 soldiers in  stages.
"But we appeal to the international community to provide proper military  equipment immediately," Kabia told AFP by telephone from Kigali.
The United Nations decided to redeploy troops after coming under heavy  criticism for withdrawing all but 400 of its 2,500 ceasefire monitors when a  bloodbath engulfed Rwanda after the April 6 death of president Juvenal  Habyarimana in a mysterious plane crash.
Aid officials estimate that more than 200,000 Rwandans have been butchered  while the United Nations has done little more than make verbal protests.
The new force will not intervene in fighting between the rebel Rwanda  Patriotic Front (RPF) and the army, but may use force to protect civilians  being massacred by civilian militias controlled only loosely, if at all, by  the government, Kabia said.
Both the army and the rebels, who had warned that they would treat a  "military intervention force" as a hostile invasion, have agreed to the phased  deployment of the UN soldiers, Kabia said.
"Both sides have given their agreement and we are counting on their  cooperation. The problem we may have is with the militias but we can handle  that provided we have the right resources," he said.
The UN troops will escort convoys of food and medicine to hundreds of  thousands of Rwandans threatened by famine and disease and help protect  civilians and displaced people.
They "may be required to take action in self-defence against persons or  groups who threaten protected sites and populations, United Nations or other  humanitarian personnel or the means of delivery and distribution of  humanitarian relief," according to a Security Council resolution adopted  Tuesday.
But the United Nations, reeling from its failure to end anarchy in Somalia  and facing American reluctance to embark on another hazardous mission in  Africa, did not empower the Rwanda force to launch offensive "peacemaking"  operations.
Kabia said that if the new force had been in place, it could have  prevented the massacre of 10 children and a Rwandan woman working for the UN  Children's Fund (UNICEF).
UN officials found their dismembered bodies in the woman's central Kigali  house Tuesday. Five of the victims were her children, while she was sheltering  the others, Kabia said.
"Civilians armed with guns, grenades and machetes entered the house and  hacked the victims to death," Kabia said.
He said he did not know whether the dead were from the minority Tutsi  tribe that has borne the brunt of six weeks of the bloodletting unleashed when  Habyarimana died in what his followers said was a rocket attack on his plane  by the predominantly Tutsi rebels.
Extremist militias from the majority Hutu tribe which dominates the  government have been blamed for much of the killing.
But the rebels, who advanced on Kigali as militia death squads rampaged  through Rwanda, bludgeoning and hacking to death Tutsis and Hutu opposition  supporters, have also been accused of wanton slaughter by the UN High  Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
A UNHCR field officer saw RPF guerrillas open fire on refugees trying to  cross the Akagera river to seek sanctuary in neighbouring Tanzania, UNHCR  spokesman Rupert Colville said in Geneva on Tuesday.
He added that the UNHCR was considering airlifts "to ease the shortage of  food in the refugee camps" in Tanzania.
Kabia said a Ghanaian battalion, which will be the first to return to  Rwanda, would initially secure Kigali airport, where fighting has often  prevented relief flights from landing.
UN soldiers will then secure other areas of Kigali where thousands of  displaced people are sheltering, before fanning out into other parts of the  country to help civilians who have fled their homes, Kabia said.
"We also hope to have a rapid deployment force that could go to areas  where there is trouble," he said.
"We need armoured personnel carriers and a squadron of helicopters to  airlift soldiers into the theatre immediately," he said. "Without that, we  won't succeed."
Small arms fighting continued as heavy rain lashed Kigali on Tuesday,  Kabia said.
