Victor Co. Of Japan (JVC) said Tuesday group pre-tax  losses grew five percent from a year earlier to 26.8 billion yen (260 million  dollars) in the year to March but forecast a return to the black this year.
JVC, which also announced Tuesday the suspension of its annual dividend  payment for the second year in a row, said its consolidated sales in the  latest year dropped six percent to 727 billion yen.
But the subsidiary of Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. Ltd. forecast a  pre-tax profit of 1.4 billion yen for the current year, reversing three years  of losses amounting to almost 60 billion yen. Worldwide sales are meanwhile  projected to recover to about 750 billion yen.
"A return to full-scale business expansion will take some time," the  company said, noting that Japan's recession "isn't showing any signs of  ending."
"Under these unfavourable circumstances, JVC is determined to make the  utmost effort to restore profitability and strengthen its corporate structure  by increasing sales through the creation of new markets, reducing production  costs and fixed expenses and utilising management resources more efficiently."
JVC said that despite the bigger loss at the consolidated level, the  pre-tax loss of the parent company alone narrowed 25 percent from a year  earlier to 19.5 billion yen. Increased exports, particularly to Asia, were  offset by lower domestic sales and foreign exchange losses arising from the  stronger yen.
Despite continued losses of three billion yen in the current six-month  period ending in September, the parent also expects to return to the black  this year with a profit of one billion yen.
In the latest year, consolidated sales were hit by lower revenue from all  products except televisions where sales rose one percent to 117 billion yen.
But video sales dropped seven percent to 246 billion and audio sales fell  two percent to 139 billion yen as sales of information-related equipment and  other products declined one percent at 95 billion yen.
Revenue from entertainment activities, including Hollywood production  company Largo Entertainment Inc., dropped 14 percent to 130 billion yen.
Overseas revenue declined three percent from a year earlier to 385 billion  yen but increased its share of global turnover from 52 percent of the total to  53 percent as a result of a sharper decrease in domestic sales.
