Fresh evidence allegedly linking former prime  minister Margaret Thatcher to "arms-to-Iraq" is to be passed on to a  government probe into illegal arms transfers, a British court was told Monday.
The move follows the appeal court acquittal Monday of two company  executives Ali Ashour Daghir and Jeanine Speckman, of Euromac, based in  Surrey, southern England, who had been convicted of plotting to sell detonator  equipment for nuclear bombs to Baghdad.
The appeal court was told documents obtained from a US congressional  committee by the defendants' legal team stated clearly that US customs were  told the then "British Prime Minister (Thatcher) is very much interested" in  the progress of a US undercover operation set up to entrap them -- seven  months before both executives were arrested at Heathrow airport.
The documents also showed the undercover operation had the support of  "British Military Intelligence".
David Janes, the defendants' solicitor said: "This disclosure was not made  in Lady Thatcher's evidence about 'nuclear triggers' to the Scott inquiry".
And added: "It raises very serious questions about high-level political  involvement in the entrapment of these appellants and about the extent to  which their arrest and the publicity about 'nuclear triggers' may have served  political interests rather than justice."
Janes said material would now be submitted to Lord Justice Scott "as a  further example of the government's failure to disclose the full truth about  matters relevant to the defence in criminal prosecutions".
The Scott inquiry, which reports at the end of the year and is the longest  public inquisition in British history, has concentrated largely on the Matrix  Churchill prosecution by Customs, which collapsed after it emerged in court  that the government had allowed the firm to export machine tool equipment to  Iraq even though it knew the equipment was being used to make weapons.
That mistrial dumped reams of classified documents into the public domain,  exposing a pattern of government complicity in illegal arms sales to Iraq by  some 30 British companies, until just prior to Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait.
Monday's Appeal Court hearing heard that the judge at the original trial  had misdirected the jury and had given the impression they could still convict  even if they found electrical capacitors at the centre of the case were for  other military, but non-nuclear use.
A detailed ruling will be given Wednesday.
