Belgian Foreign Minister Willy Claes on Sunday  promised to try to persuade the Cuban authorities not to punish the 114 people  who broke into the Belgian ambassador's residence on Saturday seeking asylum.
Signalling that the asylum-seekers, including 24 children, would not be  allowed to stay in the residency, he told RTBF radio: "We will attempt to  ensure, at least that these people are not pursued, that they are not punished  if they have to leave the embassy."
Cuba routinely denies the right to exit the country to Cuban nationals who  try to leave by seeking asylum in diplomatic facilities.
In Havana, witnesses said the group gathered in a square alongside the  residence in Havana's posh Miramar district, and then slipped into the  compound when guards were not looking.
The act was clearly "a message of political despair," Claes said.
Meanwhile a foreign ministry spokesman said they would explain to the  group "what the procedures for obtaining a Belgian visa are.
They would explain that "first you put in an official demand at the  chancery, and that occupying the ambassador's residence is not the best way of  getting a visa," the spokesman said.
The residency building normally houses two or three officials in addition  to the ambassador. The spokesman said their first concern was to persuade the  Cuban authorities to allow food and water into the building.
The ministry said it was in constant contact with the Cuban authorities in  Brussels and Havana and attempting to seek a quick and humane ending to the  occupation.
Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina said Saturday: "It is up to Belgian  authorities familiar with our positions on the matter to take the appropriate  steps."
In an earlier incident, eight Cubans entered the Belgian residence on  January 26 and requested political asylum.
In late February they finally accepted a deal in which they agreed to  leave the building after Belgium secured formal assurances from Cuban  authorities that the eight would face no charges.
