UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, in a bid  to deflect mounting criticism UN operations, said Friday that UN member states  were to blame for any confusion in the world body's action in international  crises such as ex-Yugoslavia and Rwanda.
"The UN is neutral and and carries out the decisions adopted by the 15  states (on the Security Council), which include the five superpowers," he said  in an interview on French radio.
The UN chief was in the French capital to discuss the Bosnian crisis ahead  of an international ministerial conference on the matter Friday in Geneva.
Paris earlier this week threatened to pull its forces out of Bosnia --  where they form the largest UN peacekeeping contingent -- if progress towards  a negotiated settlement cannot be obtained.
The French warning came ahead of the meeting Friday in Geneva by foreign  ministers from the United States, Russia and five European Union states  including France and Britain to try to restart the Bosnian peace process.
Boutros-Ghali said the UN could only be "accused of subjectivity in the  sense that it executes" Security Council decisions.
But he conceded that member states might get "tired" about military and  financial demands if UN peace operations carry on endlessly.
When asked about the French threat of a force pull-out in Bosnia,  Boutros-Ghali said it was up to the Security Council -- of which France is a  permanent member -- to find replacements.
He noted the example of Somalia, where after the departure of US, German,  Belgian and French forces, the UN operation was handled essentially by African  and Asian troops.
"I have no way to prevent a member state from withdrawing its forces" from  a UN military operation," he said.
He also said he regretted huge outstanding financial commitments to the UN  by member states, such as the United States which he said owes more than a  billion dollars.
It was the United Nations' duty "to help member states either find  peaceful solutions to conflicts, or to serve as an alibi for states that need  the United Nations to excuse their lack of action."
He stressed the United Nations had been successful in recent years in El  Salvador, Cambodia and South Africa.
Even in Yugoslavia, he said, the United Nations could claim some successes,  such as aid supplied for some two million refugees and displaced people,  heading off the spread of trouble to Macedonia with a UN deployment and, up to  now, having kept the war inside ex-Yugoslav borders.
