President Clinton is faced with a problem akin  to squaring the circle: how to preserve the benefits of trading with China  without giving the impression that once again he has backed down from a  commitment.
Clinton must decide by June 3 -- coincidentally the fifth anniversary of  the bloody crackdown by the Chinese army in Tiananmen Square -- whether to  renew China's most favored nation (MFN) trading status.
Publicly, the administration continues to hold out hope that China will  meet its conditions for renewal of MFN, which allows China to ship its  products to the United States at the lowest tariff rates.
Sunday, Vice President Al Gore said it was premature to assume that  Beijing would not meet the US conditions that it take steps to significantly  improve its human rights record.
"This dialogue is still under way. Often in the last period of time before  a deadline, some of the most productive exchanges take place," Gore said in a  CBS television interview.
But with less than two weeks to go, the question is no longer whether MFN  will be continued but whether Clinton will impose limited sanctions, targeting  certain Chinese products such as those made by the army or by state-run  companies.
The problem is that he has staked the United States' entire trade relation  with China on Beijing taking steps to improve its human rights record.
When he extended China's MFN status last year, Clinton signed a  presidential order outlining what he expected from the Chinese in order to  renew MFN this year.
The principle conditions were that the Chinese had to stop exporting  prison-made products and allow certain dissidents to leave the country.
The Chinese also had to make "significant progress" in five other areas -  among them limiting repression in Tibet and allowing the International Red  Cross access to political prisoners.
A year later, Clinton is applying as much pressure as he can muster to  convince Beijing to meet those conditions. He recently sent Michael Armacost,  a high-ranking diplomat, to Beijing to outline once again the measures China  must take to stave off the loss of MFN.
Beijing would appear to have more to lose than Washington. Exports from  China to the United States totalled 31.5 billion dollars last year, while US  imports to China accounted for 8.8 billion dollars.
However, one number shows how important the stakes are for the Clinton  administration: China could invest 600 billion dollars to modernize its  infrastructure between now and the end of the decade, as Commerce Secretary  Ron Brown emphasized Saturday.
Washington, Brown said in an interview with CNN, does not intend to lose  that market to the Germans, French or Japanese.
The argument is further underscored by the fact that creating jobs has  been Clinton's number-one priority, for which he is relying on rising US  exports.
So once again, Clinton finds himself wedged between his promises and  reality.
US corporations dealing with China -- from Boeing to ATT and IBM -- have  campaigned for months to avoid what they regard as a certain disaster.
The Chinese have made more gestures in the last few weeks. They have  allowed certain dissidents to leave and agreed to discuss US complaints that  they are jamming Voice of America broadcasts aimed at China.
The administration seized on those moves as signs of progress. Clearly  preparing the ground for renewal, Brown said Saturday that "most objective  observers agree that the Chinese have met the two mandatory requirements."
Concerning the five others mentioned last year, he said, "The question is,  have they made substantial progress in the other areas, not whether the human  rights situation is perfect in China, but whether they meet the substantial  progress test."
Other reports by human rights groups have complicated Clinton's efforts.  The first, made public Wednesday, said that exports of prisoner-made products  have not ceased. Another reported that an additional 500 people have been  detained since 1989.
Numerous congressional sources believe that Clinton will attempt to soften  the impact of renewing MFN by calling for the creation of a bilateral human  rights commission.
He may also propose that US companies in China apply a code of conduct  similar to the "Sullivan code" used by US firms in the 1980s in South Africa  to fight apartheid.
However, raising tariffs and duties on certain products with the goal of  penalizing the Chinese army or state-run companies seems technically and  politically difficult.
"That would require a law that would be without doubt blocked," said Will  Keyser, aide to Democratic Senator Max Baucus of Montana, in an interview with  AFP.
