The shooting of former Nation of  Islam spokesman Khallid Abdul Muhammad has put the radical black group back on  the front pages despite its repudiation by most mainstream African-Americans.
Muhammad, 43, remained hospitalized at the Riverside Community Hospital  Monday after he was shot in a parking lot after a speech at the University of  California campus here. His condition was satisfactory on Sunday, but the  hospital declined to say more as per his request.
One bullet lodged in his lower left leg and another grazed his right, said  university spokeswoman Kathy Barton. Three of Muhammad's bodyguards were also  injured, one in the abdomen.
The alleged shooter was James Bess, a 49-year-old who was kicked out of  the Nation of Islam three years ago. Bess was treated for injuries suffered  when the crowd beat him following the shooting. His assailants shouted, "He  works for the Jews."
In November 1993, Muhammad was at the center of a controversy that cost  him his post as a spokesman for the Nation of Islam. Under a firestorm of  criticism, the group's leader, Louis Farrakhan, publicly disavowed Muhammad  for a speech in which he called the pope a "no-good cracker" and Jews  "bloodsuckers."
Farrakhan, who has also come under fire for remarks about Jews, is perhaps  the best known spokesman for the Nation since Malcolm X in the 1960s.
Malcolm X's fiery speechs were responsible for much of the organization's  growth, but he was fatally shot on February 21, 1965 by three members of the  Nation of Islam after he broke with its spiritual leader Elijah Muhammad.
Sunday's speech showed that Muhammad had not lost any of his fire.
He told an audience of about 500 that Jews are oppressors and whites  satanic.
"You can tell your time is up, white man," he said. "I believe in peace  when possible but violence when necessary."
Muhammad warned the handful of white listeners that his speech would be "a  rough ride" and proceeded again to attack Jews.
"The black Holocaust is 100 times worse than any other Holocaust ever  recorded in the annals of time," he declared, adding that the Jews had  infiltrated the civil rights movement to pursue their own interests.
These sorts of diatribes have angered Jews in America, and spawned  denunciations at all levels. Critics have included President Bill Clinton,  Vice President Al Gore, and moderate black spokesmen like the Reverend Jesse  Jackson and US Representative Kweisi Mfume.
The Nation of Islam, which now numbers about 20,000 active members, was  founded in the 1930s by Elijah Muhammad, the son of slaves who preached the  Koran and urged blacks to throw off the yoke of the "blue-eyed devils."
Based in Chicago, the group's popularity peaked in the early 1960s when  Malcolm X was working as Elijah Muhammad's assistant.
In the early 1970s, the Nation claimed 100,000 members and several  hundreds of thousands of sympathizers. The organization ran mosques, schools  and businesses with revenues of more than 100 million dollars.
Members lived an austere life based on Moslem principles: no smoking,  drinking, drugs or gambling were allowed. Members do not vote or serve in the  military.
