Australian opposition leader John Hewson on  Saturday lost the support of his Liberal Party president and other key party  figures in his battle to remain at the helm, following a week of political  infighting.
Hewson, 47, sought to end mounting speculation about his future Friday  when he called a special party meeting for 2.30 p.m. (0430 GMT) Monday, and  declared all leadership positions vacant.
Treasury spokesman Alexander Downer, 42, announced within hours that he  would fight for Hewson's job with finance spokesman Peter Costello, 36, as his  prospective deputy.
Hewson, who as leader of the Liberal Party also heads the conservative  coalition opposition with the country-based National Party, said he was  "absolutely confident" he had the support of the parliamentary party.
That support ebbed away Saturday, when Liberal Party President Tony Staley  said in a statement that the past week -- in which party members brawled  publicly over Hewson's future -- had led him to call for a change.
Party supporters "despair at the instability and conflict within our  elected ranks," Staley said.
"They desperately look to the parliamentary party to renew itself and move  on from these rather difficult times under vigourous, united leadership.
"I feel obliged to place on the record the desire of the thousands of  voluntary workers in our party that Monday's meeting in Canberra (will)  provide this urgently needed renewal and change."
Many Australians were convinced over the past week "that John is unable to  provide the alternative leadership at the next election that our country  desperately needs and deserves," he added.
Downer and Costello, meanwhile, garnered public endorsements and stepped  up campaigning.
Commentators said Hewson entered the fight already seriously wounded,  after leading his party to its fifth successive defeat in the March 1993  election.
The poll -- dubbed the "unloseable election" --  was finally won by a  Labor Party trying to retain power as the country reeled from its worst  recession in 60 years.
"As the shadow treasurer I have done everything I possibly could to help   Hewson rebuild his leadership out of the last federal election defeat," Downer  told reporters Saturday.
"It was never going to be an easy task for him, and I was prepared to do  everything for him to help him achieve that.
"But in the last five months there has been substantial instability in the  party, there has been concern about the leadership, our position in the  opinion polls has waned, support has started to fall away from the party and  we have to take the opportunity to rebuild the party."
Opposition defence spokesman Peter Reith publicly supported the rivals,  estimating that Downer had pulled in 35 votes to Hewson's 43, within 24 hours  of the race being announced.
"I believe that it is very likely Downer will be successful," he said.
Amanda Vanstone, the opposition spokeswoman on justice and consumer  affairs, said of Downer: "We will win with a fresh, young, tough leader and I  believe Alexander will fill that role."
But Hewson has maintained the public support of the opposition Senate  leader, Robert Hill, who said: "He has done as much as could be expected of a  leader. It is not in the party's interest to throw him out."
Downer has suffered government jibes that he speaks with a distinct  English accent after living in London as a child, but has worked hard on his  media image since taking over the treasury portfolio.
Costello is on the party's right wing. His prospects were boosted by the  leading role he played in a campaign which led to the recent resignation of  former Sports Minister Ros Kelly over her allocation of sports grants.
