Politicians in southeastern Nigeria have formed a  new party in defiance of a government ban and called on the junta of General  Sani Abacha to stand down, press reports said here Wednesday.
The People's Mandate Party was formed in the city of Enugu last week as an  offshoot of the Eastern Mandate Union (EMU) grouping prominent politicians  from seven states in the region, the reports said.
In a statement, the group demanded that Abacha relinquish power by June 30  to make way for a sovereign national conference on Nigeria's political future,  and said it was "agreeable" to the possible validation of the outcome of a  presidential election annulled by a previous military regime last June.
That poll, said by international observers to be free and fair, was  generally held to have been won by millionaire businessman Moshood Abiola, but  then junta chief General Ibrahim Babangida alleged there had been  irregularities.
The EMU said it could embark on the organisation of a sovereign national  conference and the establishment of a government of national unity with  like-minded political organisations elsewhere in the country.
It was not clear whether the new group was affiliated to the  recently-formed National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), a pro-democracy  movement comprising prominent politicians, retired military officers and  ex-political office holders from states in the the southwest, southeast and  middle belt of the country.
NADECO masterminded a boycott Monday in much of Nigeria of the first round  of elections to a constitutional conference which the regime plans to organise  at the end of June, as part of a plan it has presented to restore civilian  rule.
Pro-democracy campaigners dismissed the vote and the planned conference as  a "charade" and accused the military of bidding to hold on to power. They said  the army should hand over to Abiola, a Yoruba from the southwest.
When Abacha seized power last November, ousting a short-lived civilian  administration appointed by Babangida as he stepped down in August, the new  regime abolished every democratic institution in Nigeria, including elected  authorities and political parties.
Seventeen pro-democracy activists arrested in Lagos appeared in court  Tuesday and were charged with attempting to disrupt Monday's election,  unlawful assembly and causing a breach of the peace, a lawyer and human rights  activist said.
The EMU, led by former presidential candidate Patrick Dele Cole, also  revived old charges that the east of the country has been marginalised within  the military and proposed the establishment of regional commands to  decentralise the armed forces.
In 1967-70, Nigeria was wracked by a civil war that ended the secessionist  aspirations of the mainly Ibo-peopled east, which tried to form the separate  state of Biafra.
