Headed to Europe to commemorate the 50th  anniversary of the Allied invasion of France, President Bill Clinton is the  first US leader from a generation for which the word "war" does not evoke the  heroism of Normandy but the moral conflict of Vietnam.
This European tour -- which begins Thursday in Italy and includes Britain  and France -- could turn out to be a political minefield for the Clinton  because of his uneasy relations with all things and people military.
The problem is not that Clinton is not a veteran.
Another non-combatant, former president Ronald Reagan, was revered by the  military establishment and brought tears to listeners' eyes in D-Day remarks  on June 6, 1984 at Pointe du Hoc, France. But that was the 40th anniversary of  the invasion.
The president for the 50th anniversary is a man who, while a student at  Oxford, was one of many who protested the war in Vietnam and worked hard to  avoid being drafted, including maneuvering that some veterans continue to find  suspicious.
The most damning evidence -- which could have cost him the presidency in  1992 -- is a letter that Clinton wrote in December 1969 thanking the officer  in charge of the Reserve Officer Training Corps at the University of Arkansas  for "saving" him from the draft.
He also spoke of the fact that many young Americans had come to "loathe  the military."
The months following Clinton's inauguration were marred by low-intensity  conflict between the president and the military and its supporters.
The president's desire to legalize homosexuals serving in the armed forces  despite strong opposition by the military hierarchy caused friction, which was  aggravated by attempts to cut the defense budget.
Clinton got a cool reception in a February 1993 visit to an aircraft  carrier, and scattered boos at a memorial to fallen US troops in Vietnam  during Memorial Day remarks last year.
The situation has improved since then but it is clear that Clinton is  still out of his element when he goes -- as he did Monday -- to Arlington  National Cemetery for this year's Memorial Day ceremony.
Soldiers do not give him the same respect as his predecessor George Bush,  who fought in World War II.
"What can he say at Normandy, this man who loathed the military and  avoided the draft?," said Walter Berns, a Georgetown University professor of  government and World War II veteran.
The White House says that Clinton is commander-in-chief of the armed forces  and that the past is the past.
But Clinton is aware of the risks, and while he will make a sentimental  trip to Oxford University, where he never finished his studies, to receive a  doctor of law degree, the profile of that portion of his trip has been lowered.
"This in fact is a real degree the president is receiving, not an honorary  degree," an administration official said.
Originally scheduled for Saturday, June 4 after a speech at an American  cemetery in Cambridge as part of D-Day recollections, Clinton's trip to Oxford  was put off until Wednesday, June 8 and downgraded to a brief stop to avoid  raising 25-year-old controversy.
