One of the world's leading aid agencies urged  Australia Tuesday to press the United Nations to send troops to Rwanda,  arguing that the horrors of its civil war far surpassed the Somalian and  Cambodian tragedies.
World Vision International's Australian-born president Graeme Irvine said  he had seen all the world's major crisis areas in 27 years with the agency,  but Rwanda beat them all.
The cruelty of death squads operating throughout Rwanda was inconceivable  and the wounds of survivors horrific, said Los Angeles-based Irvine during a  brief visit to visit family here.
"This is obscene, it's not human, it's not even natural, animals don't  even act like this. This is death beyond imagining.
"I've been 27 years with World Vision and I've been in all the major  crisis areas - Sudan, Somalia, Ethiopia, I was in Cambodia immediately after  the Khmer Rouge left and I was there when they came into Phnom Penh."
He described Rwanda as "the worst situation I have seen", adding that  during his trip there last week he had seen about 100 naked bodies, of men,  women and children in one river, many of them decapitated.
People who had survived massacres of nearly entire villages were being  brought into poorly equipped hospitals with maggotty, raw wounds inflicted  with machetes and other hand weapons.
"They're shocking wounds. People with hands chopped off, maggots in these  wounds, you don't see this sort of thing in other places. Amputations without  anaesthetic.
"There have been many cases where death squads have come into hospitals  and killed people and it's still going on."
He called on Australia and the international community to maintain  pressure on the UN to find a political solution to a crisis estimated to have  left more than 500,000 dead in the inter-tribal bloodbath which erupted last  month.
Canberra is currently considering a request to contribute up to 300  specialist troops to a multi-national UN force to protect refugees.
Irvine said Canberra should also support any moves by the UN to set up  safe havens for the hundreds of thousands of refugees who had fled the  violence.
But he said while there was a role for limited military involvement of a  protective kind it would be unrealistic for a big UN military force to try to  restore order to the central African nation.
World Vision is helping care for about 250,000 refugees who have crossed  into Tanzania as well as smaller camps within Rwanda, Zaire and Barundi.
