Talks aimed at finalising a ceasefire agreement in  the disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh broke down here Tuesday after both  sides failed to agree on a final document, Interfax reported.
The agreement brokered by Russia provided for an immediate ceasefire to be  followed by the deployment of military observers and 1,800 troops from the  Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) in the conflict zone.
Interfax quoted Azerbaijani officials as saying Armenians had insisted  that Nagorno-Karabakh be granted a special political status before withdrawing  their troops from Armenian-occupied territories surrounding the enclave.
The Armenian embassy confirmed that its delegation had left Moscow for the  Armenian capital Yerevan and that the Azerbaijani side had refused to sign the  finalised document on the ceasefire, the news agency added.
A spokesman for the Azerbaijani embassy denied the talks had reached an  impasse and told AFP that the delegations had decided to consult with their  respective governments before resuming negotiations at a later date.
He said that "new issues" had emerged since negotiations began between the  warring sides on Monday but did not give details.
Defence ministers from Armenia and Azerbaijan along with leaders of  Nagorno-Karabakh signed a preliminary agreement in Moscow Monday providing for  a ceasefire as of 0000 hours Tuesday (2000 GMT Monday).
The final document on the ceasefire agreement was to be signed Tuesday  following talks.
Meanwhile, the ceasefire appeared to be holding early Tuesday despite  reports of isolated gunfire, Armenian and Azerbaijani officials said.
The latest ceasefire agreement came after several failed attempts by  Russia and the international community to end the fighting in the mainly  Armenian-populated enclave, located within Azerbaijan.
At least 20,000 people have died in the six-year war -- the longest  running ethnic conflict in the former Soviet Union -- and one million people  have been displaced.
