Army troops clashed with leftist rebels Sunday,  killing three guerrillas, as Colombians went to the polls to pick a successor  to President Cesar Gaviria, authorities said.
Army forces shot and killed the rebels in the southern Huila province and  a soldier was injured by members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia  (FARC) in southeastern Caldas, the defense ministry said.
There were also reports that rebels burned three buses on a highway along  the Caribbean coast.
Both the FARC and the National Liberation Army (ELN), the country's two  main rebel groups, had vowed to sabotage the elections, but authorities said  the polling was generally peaceful amid apparently solid turnout. Last March's  legislative elections drew just 30 percent of registered voters.
Interior Minister Fabio Villegas said fewer than one percent of polling  stations -- 40 of 47,427 -- were troubled by any kind of rebel intimidation.
Police and military authorities have deployed over 200,000 troops to keep  the peace in this South American country in which three presidential  candidates were assassinated in the 1990 election, including frontrunner Luis  Carlos Galan.
Alcohol has been banned during the polling, as have the street festivals  which traditionally accompany Colombian elections.
Coverage of the vote itself has been strictly curtailed, and the media  were not allowed to project results after the polls closed at 16H00 (21H00  GMT), and are required to await the official tally.
Pre-polling surveys showed Ernesto Samper, 43, of the ruling Liberal  Party, and Andres Pastrana, 39, of the Conservative Party, in a tight two-way  race at the head of a crowded field of 18 candidates.
And analysts said the elections could be forced into a runoff -- the  country's first -- since neither candidate appeared positioned to win the  required majority. If there is a runoff, it would be held June 19.
Polls indicate that the two frontrunners will share some 90 percent of the  vote. Third place is expected to go to Antonio Navarro of the M-19 movement, a  former guerrilla. Surveys give him the support of five percent of the  electorate.
Samper has national experience as development minister under Gaviria.  Pastrana is a journalist and the son of former president Misael Pastrana.
Their platforms differ mainly on economics, with Samper more cautious  about the pace of selling off state-owned businesses and lifting trade  barriers than Pastrana, who has campaigned as a gung-ho free-marketeer.
Gaviria, a Liberal, leaves office at 47 with an unusually high 60 percent  approval rating. The constitution bars the president from serving a second  consecutive four-year term.
Voters also will be electing a vice president for the first time in  Colombia under new rules stemming from the 1991 constitution.
Gaviria and other officials had urged Colombia's 17 million eligible  voters to get to the polls and reverse the country's traditionally high  abstention rate.
Observers said turnout was heavy after polls opened at 8:00 a.m. (1300  GMT) despite some hitches and rebel violence on Saturday, when clashes in the  departments of Caqueta, Huila and Antioquia left three rebels, two army troops  and one civilian dead.
Electoral authorities also had to cancel voting in 20 remote districts  along the Caribbean coast because of rebel threats, officials said.
Problems with transporting election officials in some of the northern  cities in Colombia also delayed voting there.
Early returns are expected around 23H00 local time (04H00 GMT Monday).
