Ruud Gullit's return to the international fold has  given Holland's squad a major boost as they prepare their bid to go one better  than the Dutch sides that finished runners up in 1974 and 1978.
The dreadlocked star completes an impressive array of youth and experience  at the hands of coach Dick Advocaat, the man who guided Holland through the  qualifying campaign but never expected to be in charge for the finals.
The Dutch have been highly-rated before but a combination of internal  squabbling and a lack of real self-belief has always let them down in the past.
Gullit's feud with Advocaat shows little has changed in that respect. But  on paper at least, there are few, if any, teams in the competition that can  match the quality of the Dutch.
Gullit retired from international football when Advocaat substituted him  during the qualifying match against England at Wembley in April last year but  agreed to make a comeback when it looked as if Johan Cruyff was taking over  for the finals.
Cruyff failed to agree terms with the Dutch federation and Advocaat kept  his job. Gullit, perhaps realising that at the age of 31 this is his last  chance to shine on a world stage, then opted to bury the hatchet and join the  squad.
Having fully recovered from the injuries which hampered his effectiveness  in 1990 -- when Holland failed to win a match and lost in the second round to  Germany -- Gullit has enjoyed a superb season with Sampdoria.
His 15 goals helped guide the Genoa club to an Italian Cup triumph as well  as earning himself a transfer back to AC Milan.
Gullit's boyhood friend and his old teammate at Milan, Frank Rijkaard, who  is now back in Holland with Ajax, also had an excellent season, leading the  Amsterdam giants to the Dutch title.
Marco Van Basten, the striker whose goals guided Holland to its only  international trophy at the 1988 European championships, will be missing  because of injury.
But in Dennis Bergkamp the Dutch have found a worthy successor and the  return of the revitalised Ruud Gullit to the international fold represents a  real boost for their camp.
