North Korea has resumed refueling at a  nuclear site, defying international inspectors and threatening to make a full  accounting of weapons-grade fuel impossible, the International Atomic Energy  Agency (IAEA) said Friday.
IAEA director general Hans Blix said the accelerated pace of fuel rod  removal could, within days, make it impossible for inspectors to determine  whether weapons-grade plutonium had been diverted to military uses at the site  at Yongbyon.
"Should this be the case .. the agency will not be in a position to verify  the amount of plutonium produced" in North Korea, Blix said in a letter to UN  Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, a copy of which was obtained by AFP.
"At the time of writing this report almost half of the fuel in the reactor  core has been discharged and in a pattern that has precluded the agency's  ability to implement the full range of the safeguard measures required," Blix  wrote.
Ibrahim Gambari, the Nigerian ambassador who chairs the Security Council  this month, described the matter as "very serious and delicate" and said  council members would be holding consultations over the weekend.
A Security Council meeting was very likely on Saturday to discuss the  possibility of a brief statement or resolution warning North Korea of the  seriousness of the situation and formally calling on Pyongyang to stop the  refueling, diplomats said.
Britain, France and Russia have taken a tough stand, the United States is  not far behind and China, which is considered close to North Korea, has not  said no, a participant in the meeting Friday said.
US delegation spokesman Edward Gnehm said only that an "appropriate"  response should be considered.
Other possible Security Council action includes sanctions, which North  Korea has said it will regard as an act of war.
The five permanent council members (Britain, France, the United States,  China and Russia) held intensive talks after an informal session between US  and North Korean representatives Thursday.
North Korea has blocked full international inspections of its nuclear  facilities for more than a year, sparking fears that it is developing nuclear  weapons.
Earlier Friday, US and diplomatic sources said the rift with North Korea  over the nuclear inspections had deepened over the dispute.
But Washington was prepared to hold a third round of high-level talks with  North Korea as long as it was still possible for the IAEA to confirm that no  plutonium was been diverted for weapons use, a US official said.
But the official reiterated Washington's stand that once that point was  past, it would seek Security Council action to force North Korea to comply.
"It is still a point of concern ... that North Korea continues to defuel  the reactor," the official said
The IAEA has said it must be able to set its own conditions to monitor the  discharge of the rods from the five-megawatt reactor at Yongbyon in order to  ascertain whether any plutonium has been diverted.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Friday that the United States  was not seeking confrontation with North Korea but will defend South Korea  against any aggression from Pyongyang.
"Confrontation is emphatically not our preferred path," Christopher said  in a speech to the Asia Society in New York. "US forces stand shoulder to  shoulder with those of our ally, South Korea, to deter and defeat any  agression by the North."
