The United Nations on Monday protested to rebels  accused of firing on an army-escorted convoy carrying a French former  humanitarian minister on a mercy mission to staunch Rwanda's ethnic bloodbath.
Bernard Kouchner, the flamboyant founder of the French medical agency  Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF; Doctors without Borders), was forced to dive  into a ditch for cover when a hail of bullets rained down on his convoy just  outside the embattled capital Kigali on Sunday, UN spokesman Moctar Gueye said.
Gueye was himself hit in the face by bullet fragments.
Kouchner was returning from a meeting in Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25  miles) to the south-west, with officials of the interim government proclaimed  after president Juvenal Habyarimana's death six weeks ago triggered frenzied  killings in which an estimated 200,000 people have been butchered.
Kouchner, who is working with the UN on his mission, had earlier held  talks with leaders of the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF), battling the  army for control of Kigali and now thought to control about two-thirds of  Rwanda, according to UN officials.
The UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda (UNAMIR) protested over the attack to  the RPF, and also complained to the army which it blamed for "failing to  ensure Kouchner's security," said Gueye, speaking by telephone from Kigali.
Kouchner has spent five days in Rwanda trying to persuade both sides to  allow civilians trapped in the capital and still being massacred by death  squads to leave via "humanitarian safe corridors" which he wants the army and  rebels to agree to keep free from fighting.
So far there has been no sign of such an accord. But Gueye said the  mission was continuing and Kouchner, scheduled to leave Sunday, was still in  Kigali on Monday.
A lull in the artillery and mortar duels that have raged in Kigali for 10  days brought welcome quiet Monday morning, Gueye said.
Rain lashed the war-scarred city perched on hills once green with banana  trees but now brown and barren, stripped by hungry refugees from the central  African country's pitiless carnage.
"There were some exchanges of fire overnight but the battle lines are  still about the same," Gueye said. "Everyone's waiting."
Fierce fighting pitted the rebels, mainly minority Tutsis, against the  Hutu-led army Sunday in Kigali and several other towns including Ruhengeri in  the northwest and Bugesera, south of Kigali.
The rebels are advancing from east to west south of the capital towards  Gitarama, the refuge of the interim government which fled Kigali more than a  month ago.
Most of the 200,000 people slaughtered in Rwanda have been Tutsis and Hutu  opposition supporters rounded up and hacked to death by extremist Hutu  militiamen, according to relief officials and witnesses who have fled the  country.
Eleven UN peacekeepers have been killed, 10 of them Belgian soldiers  allegedly murdered by the presidential guard.
The UN security council is considering proposals by Secretary-General  Boutros Boutros-Ghali to strengthen its force in Rwanda by sending in 5,500  troops.
The UN withdrew all but 400 of its 2,500 peacekeepers from Rwanda after  they proved powerless to stem the tide of blood that engulfed the country last  month.
The world body seems reluctant to embark on a new perilous venture in  Africa after its failure to end Somalia's anarchy, diplomats said.
