The defection of an expected senatorial ally  increased pressure Monday on Italy's new Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi as  he faced a decisive battle to win backing from parliament's upper house, where  he lacks a majority.
The Senate has 326 seats, so the media magnate turned politician needs the  backing of at least 164 members to win the vote of confidence in his new  administration due to be taken Wednesday evening.
Monday morning he could count on certain support from only 155 senators,  not including speaker Carlo Scognamiglio, a Berlusconi ally who will take no  part in the vote.
But that figure dropped by one during Monday with the defection of a  senior member of the Northern League, one of the three parties in the  Berlusconi-led right-wing coalition which won the March general election.
Gianfranco Miglio, senator and League policy maker, announced Monday he  was leaving the federalist party, adding that he would now vote against  Berlusconi's government.
That left the media magnate with an extra supporter to find, but there  were signs he would win backing from some centrist senators outside the  coalition.
The coalition also includes Berlusconi's Forza Italia, the National  Alliance founded by Gianfranco Fini, leader of the neo-fascist Italian Social  Movement, and the small Christian Democratic Center.
In a preliminary bid to win other senators over, Berlusconi wrote an open  letter to the Senate, printed in Monday's edition of the newspaper Corriere  della Sera.
In it he urged the Christian Democrats, now called the Popular Party and  dominant in the upper house, to let him and his new cabinet team get on with  the job of governing Italy.
But Miglio pre-empted their response by departing, warning that he would  soon produce "revelations" on the internal workings of the League.
Analysts attributed his defection to anger at not being nominated to head  the ministry of institutional reform in the incoming government.
League leader Umberto Bossi said Monday in the newspaper La Stampa that  Berlusconi had rejected Miglio for the post in the light of the senator's  verbal hostility towards southern Italians.
Anticipating his departure, Bossi added: "The League is a mountain (from  which) the noise of a stone falling can hardly be heard."
In his letter Berlusconi said that in presenting the government's  programme to both chambers of parliament, he would present the vote of  confidence as the expression of the need to run the country.
But such support ought not necessarily to be seen as opening a political  line of credit for his government, Berlusconi wrote.
Also in Corriere della Sera, the leader of the Popular Party, senator  Nicola Mancino, said his grouping had yet to decide how to vote.
The party's formal position is clear-cut opposition to the Berlusconi  government, but some of its senators believe the new premier should be left to  get on with the job while they remain in opposition.
One of the 11 life senators, former head of state Francesco Cossiga of the  old Christian Democrats, who has already said he would vote for Berlusconi if  necessary, urged colleagues of the political centre to do likewise.
Bossi and Fini have warned the senators that if they fail to deliver the  confidence vote fresh elections would be staged next month.
Italy's new Foreign Minister Antonio Martino meanwhile arrived in Brussels  for his first ministerial council meeting of the European Union (EU). He told  European Commission chief Jacques Delors he had "come to offer reassurances"  about the Berlusconi government which contains neo-fascist ministers.
