Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin on Thursday termed  "evasive" an explanation by PLO leader Yasser Arafat that his call for a  Moslem holy war should be understood in a religious context.
"These explanations are evasive and this incident about holy war was  superfluous because it has made and will make it more difficult to continue  with the peace process," Rabin said.
Arafat on Wednesday sought to play down any hostile interpretation of his  May 10 call to Moslems at a Johannesburg mosque to "take part in a jihad to  liberate Jerusalem."
"It seems that they are trying to squeeze me with false means," Arafat  said in English on Wednesday
He insisted that the use of "jihad" was a religious phraseology.
"We can say, 'I will continue my jihad to achieve peace' in an Islamic, in  a religious way. We can say 'I will continue my jihad to do my work well, till  I will be able to bring Christians, Moslems and Jews to pray together in  Jerusalem.'"
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres met Arafat in Oslo on Wednesday and declared  that the explanation was the "minimum" he expected.
Arafat and Peres were here for ceremonies honoring Norway's role in  brokering the Israeli-PLO peace agreement.
But Peres told Oslo television: "He has made a mistake and is trying to  repair it and I can only hope that he will respect the Declaration of  Principles on autonomy and his commitments to end violence and terrorism."
Despite the public furore, ministers have privately admitted that the  jihad incident will not halt the implementation of autonomy in Gaza and  Jericho.
US Secretary of State Warren Christopher also urged Arafat to respect his  pledge to end violence.
Rabin warned Tuesday that if Arafat's remarks were confirmed, it "calls  into question the peace process." Israel would "not accept such violations and  continue the process," he said.
Arafat pledged an end to violence in letters exchanged with Israel which  led to the historic declaration for autonomy.
Israel's Likud opposition party leader Benjamin Netanyahu urged the  government to "suspend all negotiations with the PLO and not to proceed with  any further military withdrawals."
