North Korea, amid an international outcry against  its suspected nuclear arms programme, called Wednesday for the removal of what  it termed the "discriminative nature" of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty  (NPT).
"With the Cold War having come to an end, the existence of nuclear weapons  cannot be justified on any account," a North Korean foreign ministry spokesman  said in a statement.
"Therefore, a significant measure for the total abolition of the existing  nuclear weapons must be taken and the discriminative nature of the  Non-Proliferation Treaty be removed," said the statement carried by  Pyongyang's official Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) monitored here.
In March last year, North Korea decided to quit the NPT amid growing  pressure from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to inspect its  nuclear facilities under a safeguards agreement with the UN watchdog body.
But the hardline communist state suspended the decision three months later  as the United States offered to discuss possible rapprochement and cooperation.
The statement said that at a recent UN disarmament meeting many developing  countries, including North Korea, called on the international community to  eliminate nuclear weapons "through universal and non-discriminatory  multilateral negotiations and treaty."
It added that the United States and other western countries sought the  strengthening of "the nuclear non-proliferation system in the present stage"  and the enhancement of the role of the UN Security Council.
While denying North Korea's nuclear weapons plan, the statement accused  them of ignoring recent reports that 70 kilograms (154 pounds) of plutonium  had been unaccounted for at a Japanese nuclear facility.
Reports have said the missing plutonium was likely stuck in machinery used  to produce nuclear fuels from the element.
"The problem will not be solved any time, if the United States and other  Western countries continue to apply the double standard in the nuclear issue,"  the spokesman said.
Signatories to NPT are to discuss extending the treaty in 1995.
