Changes ordered by Formula One bosses to make cars  safer after recent tragedies have been given a cool reception by two British  drivers in the run up to this weekend's Spanish Grand Prix.
Meanwhile the Simtek Grand Prix team has announced that Italian Andrea  Montermini, a former Ferrari and Benetton test driver, will replace the late  Roland Ratzenberger at Barcelona on Sunday.
The ruling body of motor sport, the International Automobile Federation  (FIA), has ordered a reduction in aerodynamic efficiency of 25 per cent in  time for Sunday's race.
The move, which follows the deaths of Ratzenberger and Ayrton Senna at San  Marino, and severe injuries to Austrian Karl Wendlinger at Monaco, is intended  to reduce speed through corners.
But Mark Blundell, who races for Tyrell, believes the changes will not  make the cars any safer.
And McLaren driver Martin Brundle says a reduction in power is also needed  if the modifications are to be effective.
Blundell said in an interview with Motoring News: "I wouldn't say these  cars are now more dangerous but they're not any safer.
"They're 3.5 seconds a lap slower but they're no safer."
Brundle told the same magazine: "The car is less pure to drive. It reminds  me of a few years ago in terms of the overall level of grip.
"Terminal speeds are the same and you arrive in the braking area at the  same speed, so if anything goes wrong that needs looking at.
"That's why I'd like to see a reduction in power to go with it."
Both men have tested their modified cars at the Silverstone track in  England, scene of Portugese driver Pedro Lamy's crash in his Lotus on Tuesday.
Lamy, who broke his thigh and both kneecaps after swerving off the track  into a safety wall, is said to be comfortable in Northampton General Hospital.
Blundell is also concerned about the effect the reduction in downforce  will have in wet conditions.
He said: "Barcelona can be tricky in the wet. What happens when it rains  and you hit a puddle without so much downforce? You're just going to  aquaplane."
Montermini, 30 on Saturday, will partner Australian David Brabham for the  Spanish and Canadian races, with French driver Jean-Marc Gounon, 31, taking  over for the French Grand Prix.
