World number one Steffi Graf told the press to stop  sniping at women's tennis as she prepared to launch her campaign to complete  an elusive Grand Slam at the French Open here on Monday.
The defending champion, who will open the tournament on the Roland Garros  Stadium's centre court against Slovakian Katarina Studenikova, said press  claims there were problems should not be taken too seriously.
"The Press aren't making it any easier," said the 24-year-old German who  has dominated women's tennis since Monica Seles was stabbed and forced out of  the game last year.
"Looking back over my tournaments these past few weeks, I didn't see any  problems. There were a lot of spectators and some very good matches."
Asked about the arrest on drugs charges of American teenage star Jennifer  Capriati, Graf admitted: " At first I was very upset at what had happened to  Jennifer. But then I thought about it, and I thought maybe it isn't such a bad  thing. Maybe it will be a turning point for her. Hopefully something positive  will come out of it all."
Regarding the 'burn out' among players coming on the circuit too soon,  Graf shrugged: "I don't think it is quite as bad as people are saying.
"Obviously I can only speak for myself but I was playing senior tennis at  13 and I think that was right for me. Even when I was 12 I had no competition  in the juniors anymore.
"I have been playing women's tournaments for the last twelve years and I  have no regrets."
Graf, winner of last year's Wimbledon and United States Opens, also  triumphed at the Australian Open in January.
She has been in tremendous form -- her only loss coming against Spanish  rival Arantxa Sanchez in the final of the Citizen Cup in Hamburg three weeks  ago -- a defeat that stopped Graf's 36-match winning streak.
Graf achieved a Grand Slam in 1988 when she won all four major titles in  the calender year and also added the Olympic title.
As the German player opens her bid for a fourth French title on a clear  day against a player ranked just outside the top 100, spectators will have the  chance of seeing the newly, ultra-modern A Court.
The first match on the new show court will be between Frenchman Henri  Leconte and Paul Haarhuis of the Netherlands. That will be followed by what  could be a tough first round clash for France's 12th seeded Mary Pierce who  faces former semi-finalist Nicole Provis of Australia.
World number one Paul Sampras, who like Graf is chasing a non-calender  Grand Slam, will also be on duty in the new arena against Spanish qualifier  Alberto Costa.
Graf will be followed onto centre court by tenth-seeded Boris Becker.
The German has never won a clay court event but must be encouraged by his  recent form which includes reaching the Italian Open final. He starts against  American Jonathan Stark.
This will be followed by an intriguing first round clash between twice  finalist Andre Agassi and three-times champion Mats Wilander who is staging a  comeback.
