Britain and Spain Thursday joined France in  warning they might pull their troops out of Bosnia unless serious peace talks  took place, as defiant Moslem forces stepped up their offensive on several  fronts, UN officials said.
UN Protection Force spokesman Rob Annink said the mainly-Moslem Bosnian  army was strengthening its positions on both the eastern and western fronts in  central Bosnia and "feels ready to launch an attack" against Serb forces.
He said the heaviest fighting Thursday was around Brgule, Olovo and  Kladanj, towns located between Sarajevo and the northern city of Tuzla, where  UN military observers counted up to 200 explosions Wednesday.
Annink said the larger Bosnian infantry, having redeployed troops from  previous zones of conflict with the Croats, now had an advantage over the  Serbs along the eastern front because the hilly terrain favors ground forces  over the Serbs' stronger artillery.
Meanwhile in London, British Foreign Office Minister Douglas Hogg warned  that "time is running out" for a negotiated solution to the war, while in  Madrid Defence Minister Julian Garcia Vargas said Spain would probably  consider reducing its troop contingent in the coming months.
On Wednesday, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe had said his country  could not leave its peacekeepers "indefinitely" in Bosnia.
Together, the three countries make up around 35 percent of the UN  Protection Force's (UNPROFOR) 33,253 troops stationed in former Yugoslavia,  according to official UN figures issued earlier this month.
Hogg told a private group Wednesday night in remarks reported Thursday  that the Moslems "have to recognize military defeat when it stares them in the  face...
"They have got to accept...that the military option has to be abandoned.
"Time is running out," he said. "We have eight weeks or so" to see  positive developments in the peace process.
But Prime Minister John Major said Thursday in the House of Commons: "We  have no intention at the moment of removing our troops."
A government source suggested Hogg had voiced publicly a line of argument  that the Foreign Office would have preferred to have remained unstated.
And a Foreign Office spokesman said the two-month period cited by Hogg was  "did not mean a precise deadline had been set by anybody."
"Any eventual withdrawal of British troops would be in close coordination  with our partners," said the spokesman.
Garcia Vargas meanwhile said that it was "probable in the coming months we  may consider reducing our troops in Bosnia ... The UN peacekeepers cannot stay  on a mission forever."
On Wednesday, Juppe had said France "cannot leave our UN peacekeepers  indefinitely (in Bosnia) if the people they are trying to help have  governments that don't want peace."
France, with 6,800 troops, and Britain, with around 3,400, are the two  biggest contributors to UNPROFOR. Spain has 1,487 men stationed in  ex-Yugoslavia.
France warned on Tuesday that it would consider pulling out its troops  unless there was a breakthrough in the peace process within six months, in a  bid to put pressure on the belligerents to talk.
French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur said Wednesday 800 French troops  deployed in Serbian-held Krajina in northern Croatia would be withdrawn by  June 15, and that 1,200 troops at Bihac, Bosnia, would be deployed elsewhere.
Foreign ministers of Russia, the United States and five western European  countries are scheduled to hold a meeting on Bosnia-Hercegovina June 13.
Separately, a UN plane made two safe flights in and out of Tuzla airport,  northeast Bosnia, Thursday, UN spokesmen said.
On Tuesday Bosnian Serb artillery shelled the airport, under UNPROFOR  control since March, when another UN plane landed there, forcing it to take  off again immediately. It had been the first flight there since April 14.
Danish Defence Minister Hans Haekkerup said Thursday that Denmark had  protested to the United Nations about an UNPROFOR refusal to provide close  NATO air support for the Nordic battalion stationed at Tuzla airport during  Tuesday's attack.
