Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev gave a cool  reception Thursday to a new European plan for settling border disputes and  minority issues, insisting instead that existing institutions were the proper  forum.
Addressing an international conference here on European stability, Kozyrev  welcomed the French-conceived plan as "yet another attempt to come to grips  seriously with the extremely dangerous signs of aggressive nationalism,  xenophobia, and ethnic and religious intolerance" in Europe.
The conference is supposed to lead within a year to a pact that will help  would-be European Union members in the center and east of the continent settle  potentially explosive border and minority issues befor they join the union.
The mechanism calls for creating two round tables of discussion -- one on  the presence of Russian troops in Latvia and Estonia and the rights of  Russian-speakers in the Baltics, and the other on how minority issues affect  broader relations between countries in central Europe.
Kozyrev, however, appeared to question the usefulness of the round tables.
"The most important thing in organizing the tables is, in our view, to  avoid duplication or weakening of the existing international institutions and  negotiating mechanisms but rather to concentrate on specific steps to improve  inter-ethnic relations and to ensure the rights of national minorities," he  said.
"This is especially necessary for the three Baltic states -- Estonia,  Latvia and Lithuania," he added.
He suggested that the real discussion should take place within the  52-country Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
Kozyrev said, "discussion of issues related to state borders as well as to  national minorities should take place exclusively in the framework established  by CSCE documents."
On Russian membership in NATO's Partnership for Peace program of military  cooperation with former communist countries, Kozyrev reiterated that Russia  will join with no strings attached but wants a broader relationship with the  alliance reflecting its status as a nuclear power.
"We stand for more extensive equal partnership between Russia and NATO  without mutual vetos and surprises," he said.
