Right-wing Israeli intellectuals on Sunday urged  the Supreme Court to declare Palestinian autonomy illegal.
The group of scientists, writers and lawyers said the May 4 accord  launching Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank and Gaza Strip was null and  void because the Palestine Liberation Organization is a "terrorist group."
The Palestinian people, they said, "do not exist as a legal entity" and  their representatives cannot be allowed to sign an international agreement.
Israel state radio meanwhile broadcast a speech in which PLO chairman  Yasser Arafat implies the autonomy agreement is a ruse to capture Jerusalem.
The comments came during an address Arafat gave in a Johannesburg mosque  on May 10 when he also called for a holy war to liberate Jerusalem.
Two right-wing parties, the National Religious Party and Tsomet, have  called for a no-confidence vote in parliament on Monday to protest Arafat's  statements.
Leaders of the country's leftwing parties meanwhile will hold talks over  the next few weeks to join forces and form what would be called the Israeli  Democratic Party, Deputy Foreign Minister Yossi Beilin said.
"There are no differences today between the Labor Party, Mapam (socialist)  and Ratz (the civil rights group). We have the same goal," Beilin told a press  conference.
Beilin played a major role in setting up the secret talks with the PLO  that led to the autonomy accord last September and its launch this month.
The Labor Party has 44 deputies in parliament. Mapam and Ratz along with  Shinoui form the Meretz bloc, a major partner in the coalition government.
Last week's victory of Chaim Ramon in the elections to the Histadrut  leadership, the powerful trade union, ushered in a new generation of Labor and  Meretz leaders.
Ramon, a Labor deputy who led a list of independents, succeeded in ousting  the Labor Party from the Histadrut leadership which it had dominated since its  creation in 1920.
The Israeli press said Ramon, who is close to Beilin, has been trying to  form a new party to sideline Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Foreign Minister  Shimon Peres, who have helped lead Labor for 20 years.
