The first UN-sponsored World Conference on  Natural Disaster Reduction meeting here Friday called for intensifying efforts  to prevent the loss of lives in natural disasters.
Two major earthquakes, one in India and the other in the United States,  happening within a year of each other showed the difference in casualty tolls  sustained in areas which had taken measures to prepare for natural disasters,  said Wolgang Eder, director of UNESCO's Division of Earth Sciences.
"India, September 1993, 20,000 dead in an earthquake measuring 6.0 on the  open-ended Richter scale; Los Angeles, January 1994, about 60 deaths in a  stronger quake measuring 6.5 -- the numbers show the success of preventative  measures and strict standards for construction," Eder said.
But the United States' record for minimizing damage in natural disasters  was not perfect, the UN official said.
Some building standards were not strictly enforced, he said, adding that  highways also suffered the same problem.
The conference, attended by about 2,000 experts and government officials,  concluded that prevention measures had been neglected, adding that for every  100 dollars spent on dealing with natural disasters, 95 dollars went to relief  and only five dollars towards prevention.
"Every dollar spent on prevention allows a savings of 100 to 1,000 dollars  in repair costs," said Godwin Obassi, secretary-general of the World  Meteorological Organization.
Said Eder: "There are no more catastrophes today than there were before,  but they are more deadly because of (increased) population densities and  man-made changes to the environment."
The conference adopted Friday the "Yokohama Strategy for a Safer World,"  which calls for all countries to implement casualty and damage prevention  programs and cooperate in establishing early warning systems for disasters.
The united call for prevention measures, however, sparked conflict over  who would pay for the programs, with developing nations demanding financial  aid.
Conference participants were able to reach a compromise with a statement  supporting in principle the importance of development aid and strongly  encouraging "voluntary contributions" to such programs.
The declaration said that "each country has the sovereign responsibility to  protect its citizens from natural disasters."
