President Bill Clinton said Thursday China and  the United States were holding further discussions as a showdown loomed over  renewal of China's favorable US trading rights.
"We're speaking with the Chinese," Clinton said.
Clinton, who has warned China to make improvements in its human rights  conditions or be excluded from the most favored nation (MFN) status, has to  decide on the trade question by June 3.
He said the latest contacts were not exactly negotiations. "That's not an  accurate characterization. We're having discussions with them about our  differences and about the importance of our relationship."
"No decision has been reached," he said.
The last-ditch talks indicate that Washington hopes to squeeze sufficient  concessions from Beijing to authorize the lowest-possible trade tariffs on  Chinese goods and avoid what could be a bruising diplomatic clash.
Clinton would not confirm reports that he had sent a secret envoy to  Beijing earlier this month to suggest ways the communist government can  qualify for MFN renewal.
State Department spokesman Michael McCurry would only say that "there have  been many aspects of quiet diplomay that we have been pursuing."
But he took pains to leave the door open, saying "We would welcome any  progress that China would contribute, even at a late date like this."
China publically warned Thursday that any conditions attached to renewal  of its MFN status would have an "adverse influence" on Chinese-US ties.
A foreign ministry spokeswoman said MFN was "a reciprocal and a mutually  beneficial trade arrangement."
"Any move which runs counter to this will undermine the foundation for the  economic and trade relations between the two countries and will have adverse  influences on Sino-US relations," she said.
The comments followed confirmation by a senior US official Wednesday that  Washington may settle for imposing limited sanctions on Beijing to express  displeasure over its human rights record, rather than carrying out its threat  to withdraw China's MFN status.
US businessmen, who have invested some eight billion dollars in China,  have warned the president that even attaching conditions to MFN renewal or  directing sanctions at particular sectors could draw a visceral response from  Beijing.
There has been much talk among members of the US Congress and elsewhere in  recent weeks that rather than put in jeopardy a 40 billion dollar trade  relationship and an estimated 160,000 US jobs or more by withdrawing MFN,  Clinton could go for targeted sanctions -- for example by hitting the  state-owned sector.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin on Thursday pointed to  recent expressions of support from US businessmen, congressmen and press  circles for unconditional MFN renewal as a "positive" development.
On Tuesday, a senior US official travelling in the Middle East with  Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Tuesday that "It's not all or  nothing."
In Congress, lawmakers were divided on what the government should do.
Senator Max Baucus, a Democrat, said MFN withdrawal was the "economic  equivalent of a nuclear bomb."
But Representative Nancy Pelosi, also a Democrat, said that she did not  see how Clinton could renew MFN for China, given its record on human rights  abuses.
