Serb forces are counter-attacking in  north-central Bosnia-Hercegovina in a bid to halt a push west by the  Moslem-dominated Bosnian army, a UN spokesman said Monday.
The Serbs have also launched an offensive some 30 kilometres (20 miles)  east of the major government-held town of Tuzla in north-eastern Bosnia, said  Colonel Ekrem Avdic, spokesman for the Bosnian army Second Corps.
UN officials in the north-eastern sector were unable to confirm the report   but said Monday that the sector, around the town of Sapna, had been active  for the past 48 hours.
In the north-central region around Tesanj and Teslic, Serb forces are  trying to regain ground lost during a Bosnian army offensive south-west of  Tesanj, said Major Rob Annink, the Sarajevo spokesman for the UN Protection  Force.
Over the past week, the Bosnian army captured all the heights overlooking  Teslic, which is held by the Serbs, Annink said.
The Serbs began Sunday "retaliating with artillery on civilian areas," he  added.
Annink said the Bosnians had concentrated troops in the region over the  past weeks in preparation for an offensive.
Their objective appeared to be to take over the Vlasic plateau which  dominates Travnik in order "to control the road to Donji Vakuf and probably  move downwards" to the south, he said.
The Serb forces were also counter-attacking about 80 kilometres (50 miles)  south of the region, around Turbe and Travnik, Annink said.
General Rasim Delic, the head of the Bosnian army, told a local daily  recently that he thought conditions were ripe for liberating seven towns,  including Teslic and Donji Vakuf.
In north-eastern Bosnia, the Serbs are "using artillery and tanks," with  the probable objective of cutting the road to Teocak, said Avdic, who was  speaking in Tuzla.
Teocak, a village devasted by the fighting, is at the extreme north of the  "Sapna finger," a sector controlled by the Bosnians which commands access to  the Posavina corridor, which runs along the top of Bosnia.
Control of the Posavina corridor, barely three kilometres wide at its  narrowest point, allows the Serbs, via the town of Brcko, to link the  territories they have won in Croatia and northwestern Bosnia with their  conquests in eastern Bosnia right up to Serbia.
Avdic said about 30 tanks had been brought to the region via Zvornik, a  Bosnian town on the Drina River border with Serbia which has been under Serb  control since the war broke out more than two years ago.
"The enemy is also concentrating troops in the region of Posavina. We  think they are going to try something because they don't want a political  agreeement," Avdic said.
The United Nations said Bosnian troop movements had been observed in the  region, but five kilometres (three miles) west of Tuzla, near Lukavac.
Meanwhile, the Bosnian Serb army has lifted restrictions on the movement  of U.N. military observers in the 20-kilometre zone around the eastern Moslem  enclave of Gorazde from which heavy weapons are excluded. "No conditions" were  given by the Serb army, Annink said.
Last week the Serb forces surrounding the town said the restriction on the  U.N. officials would only be lifted if several hundred Serbs were allowed to  leave Tuzla and the Bosnian army abandoned a hill on the right bank of the  Drina.
