The OECD is taking a more bullish view of prospects  for economic recovery in its area, including Japan, delegates to a panel of  top policy-makers from member countries said Thursday.
Officials from the 25 member countries of the Organization for Economic  Cooperation and Development (OECD), including Mexico which joined on  Wednesday, were also clearly more optimistic about the outlook.
But they recognized that unemployment will remain a serious problem,  especially in Europe. "Things are looking better, but this does not mean all  problems have been solved," a European delegate said.
Participants in a two-day meeting of the OECD's Economic Policy Committee,  due to end on Friday, said OECD economists now expect OECD growth to average  2.5 percent this year and 2.9 percent in 1995.
Citing a report prepared for the committee, they said this marks a clear  although moderate upward revision compared with OECD forecasts of respectively  2.1 percent and 2.7 percent last December.
OECD forecasters were slightly more optimistic than those of the  International Monetary Fund who set growth in industrial countries at 2.4  percent and 2.6 percent for this year and next in a report released three  weeks ago.
Participants in the committee meeting said an initial general discussion  of prospects and policies reflected a perception of a marked improvement in  the near-term outlook.
This was attributed in part to brisker-than-anticipated growth in the  United States and the recent decline in European short-term interest rates.
"There is increased confidence that the recovery is under way and that it  may be stronger than earlier expected," a European official said, adding that  the OECD secretariat was "taking note of this."
Describing the opening round of the panel talks as "consensual", he said  there had been broad agreement that massive unemployment remained a "priority  problem" especially for the European OECD members.
The discussions reflected agreement that efforts must be continued in order  to find remedies and reverse the persistent rise in European jobless rates.
Officials said most speakers taking part in the discussions welcomed the  recent decline in short term European interest rates, long delayed by what the  United States and many Europeans saw as an over-cautious policy stance by  Germany's Bundesbank.
There was broad agreement on interest-rate policies at Thursday's meeting,  a European official said, indicating that Europe and Japan endorsed the US  central bank's move this week to raise short term rates in order to steady  financial markets.
European experts said that if the US Federal Reserve succeeded in  persuading markets that inflation would remain under control in the United  States, expectations of renewed future inflationary pressures should no longer  exert any powerful pressure on long term rates.
"It would indeed be a pity if high long rates were to dampen the recovery  in Europe, which remains in its initial and therefore still fragile phase," a  European economist said.
Delegates also noted that the meeting emphasized the need for European  countries to restore stable conditions in their public finances by cutting  their soaring budget deficits.
Italy was the only country that did not fully share this concern, they  said.
Delegation sources meanwhile confirmed that the OECD, as reported by the  International Herald Tribune, has sharply revised its growth forecasts for the  United States, foreshadowing rates of 4.2 percent this year and 3.1 percent in  1995.
This was 0.3 and 0.5 percentage points higher than last month's IMF  projections and 1.1 and 0.4 points above the OECD's December estimates.
As for Japan, the OECD now expects the economy to grow by 0.8 percent this  year and 2.6 percent in 1995, in both cases a 0.3 percent upward revision of  its previous forecasts. The latest IMF figures were respectively 0.7 and 2.3  percent.
For Europe, the OECD has broadly maintained its previous forecasts,  putting this year's growth at 1.4 percent, and rising to 2.7 percent next year.
