The decision by US President Bill Clinton to renew  China's most-favoured-nation (MFN) trade status was widely seen as beneficial  to regional economies, while some concern was expressed for human rights.
Though the MFN issue had been an influence in regional stock markets over  the past few months as business counted the cost of Washington's standing firm  on requiring China to show "significant improvements in its human rights  record, brokers said the announcement had no impact Friday.
Renewal was expected and had already been factored in by investors, they  said.
"We've already passed the critical time," said Hong Kong-based Standard  Chartered Securities research manager Stanley Ng. "A lot of people expected it  was going to be renewed."
A leading Asian human rights monitor said Clinton's decision was "one more  capitulation," and loaded scorn on his view that China had complied with  several conditions set last year for MFN renewal.
"Far from improving, the overall human rights situation has significantly  worsened in the year since (Clinton's) executive order (on MFN) was issued,"  said Human Rights Watch/Asia in a statement issued in Hong Kong.
"We're deeply disappointed by this decision."
In Indonesia, which has faced US pressure over its labour conditions and  human rights record, the Legal Aid Institute described the decision as "very  sad and disappointing."
Luhut Pangaribuan, chairman of the group's Jakarta branch, warned that the  MFN decision "would have its implications elsewhere."
"If our government gets the same treatment, I'll be very sad because we  were still hoping that he (Clinton) can do something to induce changes in the  internal affairs of Indonesia."
Hong Kong meanwhile heaved the biggest sigh of relief, with the government  calling the decision "good news" for the colony.
"The decision has removed a significant area of uncertainty in the  immediate future," Chief Secretary Anson Chan, second in command to Governor  Chris Patten, said in a statement.
Hong Kong, the premier portal for Sino-US trade, would have seen its gross  domestic product fall by up to three percentage points, from a forecast of 5.5  percent growth this year, had MFN not been renewed, according to the  government.
Some 75,000 Hong Kongers would also have lost their jobs, the government  said.
Taiwan declined direct comment on the US decision, but suggested that  stronger US trade links with its political rival would aid the reform process  on the mainland.
"We believe economic development and expansion of foreign trade on the  mainland will help speed up social openness and political reforms."
Analysts said that renewal would clearly be to the benefit of much of  Taiwan's business community, because of its huge investments in China.
Australia and Japan came out in support of Clinton's decision, saying it  augured well for regional trade, but noted the importance of advancing human  rights.
Australian Foreign Minister Gareth Evans said in a statement that while  Canberra shared US concern for human rights in China, "We consider it unlikely  that withdrawal of MFN status would have significantly advanced the human  rights cause in China."
Evans had earlier warned US Secretary of State Warren Christopher that  denial of MFN would have "a very adverse economic impact" on the region, with  a negative ripple effect for Australia.
Japanese Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa expressed backing for Clinton's  decision, but added that Japan would continue to urge China to improve its  human rights record.
Some countries in the region saw the MFN renewal as a victory for  developing nations.
In New Delhi, a spokesman for the Federation of Indian Chambers of  Commerce and Industry said: "It is what India and other developing nations  have been asking for. The decoupling of trade and human rights augurs well for  developing nations and for the growth of world trade."
Malaysia lauded the decision which it said went against the wishes of  human rights activists and recognized Asia's growing clout.
"We are very happy for China," said Foreign Minister Abdullah Badawi,  adding that the MFN decision would give China more influence as a leading  Asian economic power and end worries about Washington's commitment to trade in  the region.
