More Haitians have fled for US shores since a  new policy on handling refugees was announced last week, but all have been  returned because the change has not gone into effect, officials said Monday.
The Coast Guard has picked up 586 Haitian refugees since President Bill  Clinton announced on May 8 that he was scrapping the policy of immediately  repatriating Haitian refugees without reviewing asylum requests, the State  Department said.
But all of the refugees were returned to Haiti because the US  administration is still working out the details for the new screening process.
State Department Michael McCurry noted that no Haitians had been picked up  during the 17 days prior to the shift in policy, which had been criticized as  unfair to those fleeing repression from the military regime.
He added, however, that he did not expect a huge increase in emigration  and said US officials would continue to discourage a mass exodus because  "leaving by rickety ships is fraught with danger."
Meanwhile, the White House harshly condemned the move by Haiti's  army-backed president to name a new cabinet, denouncing the newly-appointed  leader as a "puppet of the military leadership."
Emile Jonaissant, 81, who was sworn in last week by the military  government that overthrew exiled president Jean-Bertrand Aristide in September  1991, named his new cabinet Monday after the country's major political parties  refused to join his government.
"The military leadership ... installed a bogus government supposedly led  by illegitimate 'President' Emile Jonaissant," said a White House statement.   "Jonaissant, fronting for the military leaders, compounded this offense by  announcing new 'cabinet' appointments this afternoon."
The statement said that caretaker prime minister Robert Malval was Haiti's  only legitimate leader and praised his denunciation of the new cabinet.
In Port-au-Prince, Malval urged government employees to refuse to obey  Jonassaint's government and insisted his government, which is loyal to  Aristide, was Haiti's only constitutional leadership.
Malval also urged the army chief, General Raoul Cedras, to resign. Malval  had been sworn in as a compromise prime minister last year as part of an  agreement to bring Aristide back in October but the military abrogated the  accord.
Malval, whose bodyguards were withdrawn Monday, also said he was holding  General Cedras "personally responsible" for his safety and the safety of his  family and cabinet.
In New York, officials announced that a UN team would travel to the  Dominican Republic Monday to determine how to tighten the UN embargo on Haiti.
An international fuel and arms embargo was established in October after a  plan to return Aristide to power collapsed. And a UN embargo banning the  import of everything but food and medical supplies goes into effect May 21  unless Haiti's military has left power.
The first embargo proved hard to enforce because of smuggling from the  Dominican Republic, which shares the island of Hispanola with Haiti.
Clinton has been facing increasing pressure to end the crisis in the  impoverished Caribbean nation and rights groups and lawmakers have mounted  calls for a US military invasion.
Representative David Obey, who heads the powerful appropriations  committee, said Monday that he backed military force, not just to stop the  human suffering but because of the huge costs of maintaining the embargo and  dealing with the refugees.
Representative Carrie Meek, whose Florida district is populated with  thousands of Haitians, agreed. "The time is up for options. It's time for  action, military action."
