Phantom armies, false messages and even a phony  general were keys to the spectacular success of the allied D-Day invasion of  World War II.
The disinformation campaign is a little-publicized aspect of the landing  that led to the liberation of Europe from the Nazis a half-century ago, an  event being commemorated in France in June.
Aided by 47 double agents, the British secret service MI5 spread in the  months leading up to D-Day on June 6, 1944, false leads to convince the Nazis  that the landing would take place in Denmark, or Norway, or Belgium or even  the Balkans -- anywhere but on the isolated Normandy beaches of France.
Two Norwegians turned into double agents by the British fed the Nazis  reports of an army of 250,000 men in Scotland, ready to invade Norway.
Another double agent, Wulf Schmidt, told his Nazi contacts about a large  army massing in southeast England, the jump-off point for an invasion of  France near Calais, northeast of the Normandy region.
Schmidt, known as "Tate" by the British, "A 3725" by the Nazi Abwehr  intelligence service, was a young Danish industrial designer who parachuted in  September 1940 into Britain.
He sent more than 1,000 messages to the Germans, some with accurate  information that justified his "value" as an agent. He told the Nazis, for  instance, about the top-secret arrival of US General Dwight Eisenhower in  Britain in January 1944.
In the weeks that followed, he reported the deployment of a totally false  army, the First US Army Group (FUSAG) in Kent in southern England. Something  big is going on in the region, he told the Germans.
Luftwaffe reconnaissance flights confirmed the reports since seen from the  air there were some eight square kilometres (three square miles) of petrol  docks, landing ships, air strips, tanks, trucks and troops.
British newspapers reported on local complaints that American GIs were  littering the countryside with condoms. These planted stories eventually made  their way into Berlin's intelligence-gathering apparatus, French author Gilles  Perrault has written.
But a closer look on the ground would have revealed cardboard soldiers,  boats and planes, rubber machineguns and inflatable armored cars -- a 100  percent false army thought up by MI5 Colonel Henry Bevan.
It was a brilliant job. The petrol docks were created by an architect, a  cinema technician and other specialists in illusion.
The detail was impeccable. Smoke curled out of stovepipes, as if soldiers  were really camping out in those bunkers. Veterans went on maneuvers and a  tracked-vehicle "simulator" traced tank tracks on the ground at night.
Hitler was so convinced that FUSAG was real that he held fast to his  defense plans when the D-Day invasion started, convinced it was a feint ahead  of the real landing in the Calais region. The 15th German army was thus kept  out of the battle zone.
Ironically, the allies even gave Hitler the right date and place of the  invasion, but through an agent the Germans knew had been "turned" by the  British.
The Nazi conclusion: the invasion would be anywhere but in Normandy on  June 6.
The coup de grace was a false General Montgomery, the British general who  was the tactician for the invasion. Played by actor Lieutenant Meyrick  Clifton-James, the false Montgomery went into action on May 26, 1944, 12 days  before D-Day, traveling to Algeria from London.
The Nazis were convinced that if Montgomery was in Africa, an allied  landing in France could not be imminent.
They were wrong.
The rest is history.
