The South American, five-times a semi-finalist, lost a grinding 6-2, 2-6,  4-6 clash to Silvia Farina of Italy -- a player ranked just outside the  top-100.
Sabatini, 24 last week, has now failed to win a title since the 1992  Italian Open and her latest reverse, on her favourite surface, must raise new  questionmarks over her future.
Date, who has never found Paris a happy hunting ground and who went out in  the second-round last year, was well beaten. She won only three games against  the 18th-ranked Amanda Coetzer.
The South African, who has been enjoying an excellent season, could well  be heading for a fourth-round clash against the big-hitting Pierce.
Garrison, a Wimbledon finalist four years ago, went down in three sets to  Silke Frankl of Germany -- while Czech Jana Novotna, a finalist at the All  England Club twelve months ago, was beaten by the 1991 Roland Garros junior  champion Anna Smashnova of Israel.
Defending champion Sergi Bruguera and Jim Courier, the man he beat in last  year's final, both survived their first-round matches.
The sixth-seeded Bruguera looked as though he was about to take up where  he left off last year with a fine exhibition of clay-court tennis but after  racing 6-1, 6-1, 5-1 clear against Czech opponent Martin Damm, things suddenly  went badly wrong.
The 23-year-old Spaniard, who hasn't won a tournament in 1994, found  himself forced into a tie-break -- but he managed to clinch it 7-3.
"It was a sticky finish," he admitted. "I thought I'd won and I relaxed  and stopped moving my legs. He played a couple of good matches and got back  into the match."
Courier was unruffled by the non-stop screaming of a female spectator, who  was eventually escorted away by security men officials, as he eliminated  71st-ranked Frenchman Jean-Philippe Felurian 6-1, 6-4, 6-4.
Second-seed Michael Stich was always in full control against Renzo Furlan  of Italy and Michael Chang comfortably saw off fellow-American Jim Grabb.
Ivan Lendl, 34 and a three-times champion, went out in straight-sets  against home player Arnaud Boetsch and complained of back pain. After his  latest setback he immediately announced he would not be playing this year's  Wimbledon.
Other names from the past to disappear from the draw were Tracy Austin and  Pam Shriver. Both went out of the women's event without winning a set.
(pickup results)
kd94
