North Korea has agreed to the visit of a new  high-level mission of the International Atomic Energy agency (IAEA) to discuss  the removal of fuel rods from its controversial Yongbyon nuclear complex, the  IAEA announced Saturday.
The mission which is composed of senior safeguards officials will leave  Vienna Sunday and arrive in North Korea Tuesday.
A growing row over Pyongyang's refusal to allow inspections of two of its  nuclear complexes, suspected by Washington of shielding a secret weapons  programme, has heightened tension on the Korean peninsula.
But, the IAEA said, North Korea had Saturday "expressed readiness to  receive an agency consultation team.
"The team will clarify with the three IAEA inspectors already in place  since last Tuesday the measures needed to inspect the removal of the nuclear  fuel roads," the agency said.
However, "North Korea's position on inspection of the reactor remains  unchanged," IAEA spokesman Hans Friedrich Meyer added.
"Pyongyong still says it cannot now interrupt the process at the reactor  but that the surveillance machinery put in place by the IAEA guarantees that  there will not be any diversion of nuclear material to military ends," he said.
The IAEA said late Thursday that North Korea had begun extracting fuel  rods from its five-megawatt Yongbyon reactor, 90 kilometres (55 miles) north  of Pyongyang, in a "serious violation" of IAEA inspection terms and that it  would inform the UN Security Council.
On Friday the agency rejected a North Korean proposal to keep fuel rods  from the controversial nuclear reactor in a "safe place under seal" ahead of  resumed talks on the issue.
"That won't work. We will no longer be able to verify with certainty if  any of the nuclear material has been diverted," an agency official said.
However, US Defence Secretary William Perry said Friday said the IAEA had  told the US that "it is confident that there has been no diversion of the fuel  that has just been discharged."
Meyer confirmed that the uranium rods so far withdrawn showed too high a  radioactivity level to allow diversion to military uses at present. But he  said this was "not the most important question at present."
"We have to take samples if we want to have proof that North Korea has not  diverted nuclear material to military ends since the start-up of the reactor  in 1986," he said.
North Korea said Saturday that "unreasonable acts" by the United States  and the IAEA had forced it to change fuel rods at the reactor without  international supervision.
"The United States and the secretariat of the agency have no justification  to decry our replacement of fuel rods," North Korea's official party newspaper  said, according to a Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) dispatch monitored in  Tokyo.
The paper said the IAEA had "avoided presence in the replacement of fuel  rods", despite North Korea's request that it send inspectors for a quick  removal of the fuel rod seals.
The IAEA had refused to to send inspectors to observe the refuelling after  North Korea said it would not allow immediate sampling to determine whether  plutonium had been diverted to the country's weapons programme.
US press reports Saturday said Washington is to reopen high-level talks  with North Korea after administration officials decided the North had met its  key demands for international nuclear inspections.
The decision was taken a a meeting of senior officials at the White House  late Friday, the Saturday edition of the New York Times said.
