Nigeria's Super Eagles will be the only side in the  World Cup finals hardened by real competition, thanks to their victory in the  African Nations Cup in April.
And the style with which Clemens Westerhof's side finally lived up to  their potential in Tunisia suggests they are ready to at least match  Cameroon's run to the 1990 quarter-finals, the best performance yet by an  African side.
Any side that can leave striking talent like Monaco's Viktor Ikpeba and  Norwich Efan Ekoku on the substitutes bench must be good enough to inspire  fear even in the best defences and Argentina, Bulgaria and Greece will all be  wary of the Nigerians firepower.
Rashid Yekini, blessed with blistering pace and an equally explosive shot,  leads the forward line alongside Daniel Amokachi, the powerfully-built Bruges  striker.
Less well known is the pacy left winger, Emmanuel Amunike, a 23-year-old  who plies his trade with Cairo's top club Zamalek.
Amunike did not play in the African Nations Cup until the final, when  Westerhofs took a gamble and threw him in against Zambia. He repaid the  coach's faith with two goals and a display of dribbling skills that probably  won Nigeria the tournament.
The 20-year-old Eintracht Frankfurt playmaker Austin Okocha was another  who impressed in Tunisia, his sweet passes providing the amunition for the  forward line to fire.
But while the Nigerians have a forward line to rank alongside any in the  world, Westerhof, who is expected to retire after the finals, readily  acknowledges that a shaky defence could leave them exposed in the United  States.
Stephen Keshi, the centreback and captain, is in his 33rd year and looked  past his best in Tunisia. He was sacked by Belgian club RWD Molenbeek earlier  this year after returning late from his Christmas break and is currently  without a club.
Nevetheless, Westerhof is likely to stick with the man who models himself  on England's World Cup winning captain Bobby Moore and is known throughout  Nigeria as "Big Boss."
The goalkeeper Peter Rufai, who plays for Deventer Go Ahead Eagles, is  another source of worry. The 30-year-old, who likes to charge upfield and take  penalties, tends to lurch between brilliance and extraordinary blunders.
But if the Nigerian forward line produce the goods, Rufai should not have  too much to do.
