Army and rebel gunners slammed shells into each  other's camps in Kigali on Friday as the United Nations struggled to launch  its new peacekeeping operation in Rwanda after six weeks of ethnic carnage.
Mortar fire prevented UN planes from landing in the embattled capital with  desperately needed food and medicine for the second consecutive day, UN  spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
The airport is Kigali's only lifeline, but for the rebel Rwanda Patriotic  Front (RPF) it a military target because of a big army camp alongside the  runways.
The rebels are pounding the camp and other government positions in the  city centre with an artillery and mortar barrage.
At least 30 patients were killed when the rebels shelled Kigali's main  hospital on Thursday, UN military commander General Romeo Dallaire said.
The army is holding out against the rebel onslaught and shelling RPF  headquarters in the old parliament building and rebel positions on the  surrounding hills.
The rebels have also cut off Rwanda's rump government from the capital by  seizing a stretch of road between Kigali and Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25  miles) to the southwest, where the government fled last month.
They have also surrounded the northwestern town of Ruhengeri, a government  stronghold.
UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali is sending a special envoy to  discuss the Security Council's decision to send 5,500 peacekeepers to Rwanda  with both sides and seek their "cooperation," Kabia said.
The envoy, Iqbal Riza of Pakistan, is expected in Kigali this weekend.
UN special representative Jacques-Roger Booh-Booh keeps his job despite  the rebels' refusal to talk to him because they claim he favours the  government.
But he will act as a roving ambassador, negotiating with neighbouring  countries and potential troop contributors in the next few weeks.
General Dallaire continued shuttling between the army and rebels Friday,  trying to persuade them to stop fighting long enough for UN relief planes to  land.
He is struggling to organise a meeting between rebel and army commanders in  an effort to broker a still elusive ceasefire.
"There's still some fight left in both sides and I think they'll continue  for a while," Dallaire said.
Half a million people have been butchered in ethnic bloodletting triggered  by the April 6 death of president Juvenal Habyarimana in a mysterious plane  crash.
Many of the victims were members of the minority Tutsi tribe that  dominates the rebel movement, and Hutu opposition supporters hacked or  bludgeoned to death by extremist Hutu militias only loosely controlled by the  government.
The UN is having trouble drumming up support for its planned peacekeeping  mission.
Many potential troop contributing countries, worried by the killings of  more than 80 UN peacekeepers in Somalia and the world body's failure to end  factional fighting there, are reluctant to risk their soldiers in another  African peacekeeping venture, diplomats said.
Eleven UN soldiers have already been killed in Rwanda despite the  withdrawal last month of all but 400 of the 2,500 UN peacekeepers formerly  there, a move that drew heavy criticism.
The United States has voiced doubts about the UN's ability to raise 5,500  troops.
Kabia said Ghana had confirmed that it would send 500 reinforcements to  bring its battalion in Kigali, partially withdrawn last month, back up to its  full strength of 800.
France and Britain have offered equipment but no troops. Australia,  Senegal, Zimbabwe, the Netherlands, Congo, Zambia, Mali and Egypt plan to send  soldiers, and Canada is considering whether to send troops, a UN spokesman  said in New York.
No firm offer of number of troops was announced, however.
Hundreds of thousands of Rwandans have sought refuge in neighbouring  countries and at least two million of the country's seven million population  have been made homeless and are threatened by epidemics, according to the  World Health Organisation.
