Almost a year after elections forged Cambodia's  warring factions -- minus the Khmer Rouge -- into a shaky coalition, the Royal  Cambodian Army is in disarray, disabled by poor discipline and training.
After government forces suffered embarrassing defeats to the Khmer Rouge  at Pailin and Anlong Veng, King Norodom Sihanouk has made repeated appeals for  military aid and training to "save Cambodia from the yoke of the Khmer Rouge."
General Long Sopheap, deputy commander of the 4th military region in  northern Siem Reap province, says government forces have been severely  hampered by a lack of equipment and poor discipline made all the worse by low  wages.
"We don't have enough munitions," he says. "We could start an attack on  Anlong Veng, but we would not be able to stay there for more than one week."
Government troops captured and briefly occupied Anlong Veng in February,  but were driven out less than a month later by the Khmer Rouge, just as  observers began predicting the government had the rebel faction on the ropes.
Equipment aside, Long Sopheap said, the fact that factions still existed  within the army made it difficult to control rampant corruption, in which  officers often pocket the wages and rations of soldiers.
As a result, many soldiers were refusing to fight, he said.
"We came together for national reconciliation," the general said. "But I  am the commander from one party and I cannot control the generals and units  from other parties. Because there are no controls, there is corruption."
A Western diplomat here said that after the Khmer Rouge recaptured their  capital at Pailin on April 19, one month after it was taken by government  troops, morale in the army slumped to rock bottom.
"The Royal Army was unable to conduct a real war," he said. "There is no  leadership, no organisation, no structure, no logistics ... (and there is)  bribery, corruption, and soldiers selling their weapons and ammunition."
He said the army could not defeat the Khmer Rouge without foreign military  aid and training, especially as the rebels' guerrilla warfare had been very  successful at tying up large numbers of government troops.
"Cambodia is a country where psychological warfare is very effective," the  diplomat said. "The Khmer Rouge terror in the mind of the people is like a  cloud over the country."
Long Sopheap said that in Siem Reap province, an estimated 1,500 Khmer  Rouge guerrillas were immobilising 7,000 government troops, keeping the Royal  Army almost exclusively on the defensive, apart from the odd ambush.
Winston Lord, US assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific  Affairs, said in Washington Wednesday that the United States was holding talks  with Australia and countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations  (ASEAN) on how to help the Cambodian government defend itself against the  Khmer Rouge.
ASEAN groups Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and  Thailand.
The Western diplomat here welcomed the idea of foreign military aid and  training, but stressed that any action would have to take place over a long  period, and also include political reforms and economic development.
"You can't hope to solve the problems that have been created in 20 years  in two weeks or one year," he said.
