Cambodia's Khmer Rouge guerrillas agreed to  proposals for a nationwide ceasefire on the eve of peace talks with Cambodian  government leaders in North Korea.
The rebel faction announced it would accept a ceasefire proposed by King  Norodom Sihanouk and agree to establish a joint ceasefire commission, but  added that it would insist on international observers to ensure fighting  stopped.
It did not specify when the ceasefire should begin.
The statement, dated Wednesday, was released Thursday, soon after  government officials said that more than 200 Khmer Rouge guerrillas had been  killed battling a government offensive in northwest Cambodia.
Most of the dead were killed by artillery fire, but about 50 had bullet  wounds in the back of the head, apparently having been executed by their  commanders for retreating, Battambang provincial deputy governor Serey Kosal  told AFP.
There has been no independent confirmation of the reports.
In the statement calling for the ceasefire, Khmer Rouge nominal leader  Khieu Samphan asked that representatives be chosen from among 10 countries to  monitor the ceasefire and prevent unspecified foreign military intervention.
The countries mentioned were Brunei, Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Sri Lanka,  Nepal, Switzerland, Austria, Finland, the Philippines and Egypt.
Meanwhile, King Sihanouk, co-Premiers Prince Norodom Ranariddh and Hun  Sen, parliamentary speaker Chea Sim and Khieu Samphan arrived in Pyongyang for  the peace talks, scheduled to begin Friday.
The talks are to focus on a peace plan proposed by King Sihanouk that  would give the rebel faction government posts in return for opening up  rebel-held zones and merging Khmer Rouge forces with the Royal Cambodian Army.
While chances of a comprehensive peace plan emerging from the talks appear  slim, the movement from the battlefield to the bargaining table is seen as a  welcome development in a conflict that has gone on for decades.
Whether the two sides can agree on a peace package is a different issue,  and it is unlikely that the two sides will have much to offer each other in  the way of concessions, especially if hardliners on both sides have their way.
Military observers here said that the terms of King Sihanouk's proposals  would benefit the Khmer Rouge more than the government, giving the rebels  government posts despite having boycotted the May 1993 UN-sponsored elections.
But they added that the rebels were unlikely to agree to the proposal,  especially with hardliners pushing the military option after the recapture of  their headquarters in Pailin, in the northwest, and Anlong Veng in February.
Despite widespread hatred for the Khmer Rouge, responsible for the deaths  of some one million Cambodians during a four-year reign of terror that began  in 1975, the government realises that peace is necessary for economic  development.
Even Hun Sen, who has been strongly opposed to making concessions to the  Khmer Rouge, has agreed to negotiate, although he told journalists prior to  his departure for Pyongyang Tuesday that he held out little hope of success.
