Thousands of Mozambican refugees in South Africa  are opting to stay in their country of refuge rather than return under a  mass-repatriation scheme which started in April, the UNHCR said Monday.
"Hundreds of Mozambican refugees registered to come home from South  Africa, but when we provide transport, only a tiny handful show up," the  United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) spokesman in Maputo told  AFP.
The church-based "Masungulo" project working with refugees in South Africa  estimates some 250,000 Mozambicans crossed the border as refugees from war and  drought, while a further 100,000 are classed as economic refugees, or under  South African law, as illegal immigrants.
The UNHCR launched what was to be a massive programme to bring the 250,000  refugees back home, as part of a wider programme of helping some 1,5 million  Mozambicans return from refuge abroad following the end of the 17-year civil  in 1992.
However, the UNHCR source said. "From December to February hundreds of  people registered for return, but while we plan to transport home convoys of  200 to 300 people, only five or six refugees have been showing up".
Most of the Mozambican refugees in South Africa came from the south of  their home country, which is suffering drought and crop failure again this  year.
Furthermore, they share a common culture and language with their hosts in  northern South Africa.
"Following the outcome of elections in South AFrica, political pressure on  the refugees seems unlikely, many of them have land and jobs and there's  little incentive to go home", the source added.
Several new refugee transit camps UNHCR built in southern Mozambique, each  able to hold 1,000 people, look like they will lie empty.
Meanwhile, the repatriation of some 24,000 Mozambicans who took refuge in  Swaziland is nearly completed, mainly with assistance from the UNHCR and  International Migration Organisation (OIM).
The last train bringing Mozambicans home is due to cross the Swazi border  on June 3.
