Pro-choice groups declared victory Tuesday  following the French firm Roussell Uclaf's decision to allow the US non-profit  Population Council to sell the abortion pill RU-486 in the United States.
Although the drug, known as mifepristone, has been widely available in  Europe since 1988, Roussell Uclaf has been reluctant to market it in the  United States for fear opponents of abortion rights would organize a boycott.
In May, when RU-486 was being tested in Oregon, the head of the Roman  Catholic group Human Life International, Father Paul Marx, threatened  Hoechst's officials with a boycott of its entire product line.
To avoid getting caught in the cross-fire of the highly charged debate,  the company offered to allow the US government to market the drug, something  US President Bill Clinton's did not want. Roussell Uclaf agreed instead on  Friday to cede the rights to the Population Council.
Under the agreement, which was announced on Monday, the Population Council  will order tests on 2,000 women before the administration makes a final  decision on whether the pill can be sold here. Because of its safety record in  Europe, most of the tests are expected to focus on the best dosages.
All this has pleased the pro-choice movement. Although using RU-486 is not  painless, it will mean that abortion will no longer be an invasive, surgical  procedure.
Representative Patricia Schroeder, a Democrat from Colorado, greeted the  accord as the end of "medical McCarthyism." And Pamela Maraldo, head of the  Planned Parenthood Federation of America, heralded "the beginning of the end  of America's long-standing war over abortion."
If the treatment is confirmed as expected, women will be able to terminate  pregnancies "without fear of harassment and violence from anti-abortion  fanatics," she said, referring to massive demonstrations outside some clinics  that have deterred many doctors from performing abortions.
The drug works by detaching the embryo from the uterus.
Abortion opponents were muted in their criticism of the agreement. "RU-486  is not the magic pill the pro-choice movement has made it out to be," said  Serrin Foster, director of Feminists for Life.
President Bill Clinton's administration first announced in April 1993 that  it would back the approval of RU-486 when Food and Drug Administration  Commissioner David Kessler announced that since abortion was legal in the  United States, any non-surgical alternative to ending pregnancies should be  available to American women.
"The big difference is having a president who is pro-choice," said Suzanna  Walters, who teaches sociology at Georgetown University. "That does not mean  they will disappear but they don't have the kind of legitimacy that they used  to have anymore."
