The estimated cost of President Nelson  Mandela's ambitious plan to wipe out apartheid's backlogs has more than  doubled, South Africa's new governing party, the African National Congress  (ANC), said Wednesday.
Jay Naidoo, minister without portfolio and author of the Reconstruction  and Development Programme (RDP), told The Star newspaper that the plan will  cost 80-90 billion rand (21-24 billion dollars) over five years.
The ANC, which based its campaign for the April 26-29 first all-race  election on the promise of the RDP, had originally said the plan would cost 39  billion rand (10.6 billion dollars).
The RDP aims to create 2.5 million jobs, build one million houses and  electrify another 2.5 million, provide 10 years of free education to all and  redistribute 30 percent of all farmland to blacks.
The ballooning of the estimated cost followed studies by the ANC's  National Institute for Economic Policy, which is headed by Max Sisulu, an ANC  parliamentarian.
But Naidoo denied there was any cause for alarm or that the RDP would be  unacheivable.
"I don't think there is a need for any alarm bells to be ringing now,"  Naidoo told The Star, a mass-circulation Johannesburg daily.
The ANC's election opponents had slammed the RDP, with the National Party  of former president, and now deputy president, Frederik de Klerk, stating that  the programme would cost 600 billion rand (164 billion dollars).
Economists believe the RDP is unattainable without significant economic  growth to boost the government budget, hard hit by a mounting interest burden  and a slowdown in receipts due to the prolonged recession.
Payments to service the national debt, which has crept up to 55 percent of  gross domestic product, are expected to reach 23 billion rand (6.3 billion  dollars) in 1994, which could be the largest item on the budget, due to be  presented on June 23.
Finance Minister Derek Keys, who retained his portfolio when Mandela  assumed the presidency last week, will have his hands tied further by an  estimated three billion rand (820 million dollar) overrun in the cost of the  election and the transition to democratic government.
Economists said that if the ANC proceeds with the RDP as presently  envisaged, it would be forced to borrow massively, causing the already high  debt to mushroom, plunging South Africa into a Latin America-style debt trap.
Naidoo believes that the money for the RDP can come from savings in other  areas of the budget, through economic growth and the ending of rent boycotts  by township residents living in state housing.
But scepticism has been expressed from economists and the ANC's political  rivals that major savings can be achieved from the elimination of apartheid  inefficiencies.
