The chance of that happening remain remote, however, because her  committments just don't allow her to take off for tropical beaches that often.  So what else would make a perfect day for her ?
"Sleep in. Get up late. Get the papers and read them slowly without any  pressure until I'd finished them off," she smiled.
No doubt she would also have a large bowl of sweets beside her, while she  studied the news. They are her favourite "food" -- her "addiction."
"Sweets of all kinds. I just love them," she confessed. "I gorge on them,  even though I try not to. I have no self-control, none at all."
But to more serious business.
There are potentially turbulent days ahead for women's tennis with the  restructuring of the tour taking place at the same time as the popularity of  the game is reeling from the absence of some of the game's most charismatic  personalities -- among them Monica Seles and Jennifer Capriati.
A search for a new major sponsor is underway, linked with efforts to sell  women's tennis to a bigger television audience. Millions are at stake, as well  as the careers and often affluent lifestyle of the players. But Steffi thinks  they will come through the changes OK.
"It's not going to be an easy time in the next few years. But we shall  establish ourselves and, with the help of the players and the right people,  we're going to do really well,"she said optimistically.
But she added a note of caution. She has gone on record before as  believing that the never-ending escalation of prizemoney is unnecessary,  especially at the Grand Slams, where each tries to outstrip the other, despite  the fact that most players would probably be prepared to compete there for  nothing.
"We shouldn't expect too much, for instance from TV sales, because a lot  of money is involved and everywhere else money is short. We should go one step  down. We can't expect any more than there is right now.
"The money is definitely more than enough, that's for sure. I don't think  there is need for more. The only thing that should be looked at is more money  for the qualifying and the early rounds. It would be very interesting to see  more money spent on developing tennis as well."
