A referendum will be held in Northern Ireland to  discover the views of the people over their future, the British government  said in a statement on Thursday.
In response to 20 questions posed by Sinn Fein, the political wing of the  IRA, on the Downing Street peace declaration, the Northern Ireland Office  issued a statement saying the wishes of the greater number of people in Ulster  would be determined in a special poll.
"The wish of a greater number of the people of Northern Ireland would be  determined by a numerical majority of those validly voting in a poll fairly  and explicitly organised for this purpose," the statement said.
The British government also drove home its message to Sinn Fein to give up  violence and to stop "playing for time."
Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew said earlier the British  government had considered only one of the 20 questions put to ministers by  Sinn Fein on December's Downing Street declaration on the future of Northern  Ireland.
Mayhew said the rest of the questions on the declaration on the future  administration of Northern Ireland were "to some extent invitations to  negotiate.
"We are not going to negotiate. That is made very clear, until they have  said ... violence has come to an end," he told the BBC in an interview.
"We are facing here the continuance of violence for political purposes in  circumstances that both governments have agreed that the future of Northern  Ireland is to be decided by consent by democracy and not by violence, or  coercion.
Ministers thrashed out a series of responses at a cabinet meeting Thursday  before passing the 20-page document to Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds,  who was said to have studyied the British response this afternoon.
Earlier this week, Reynolds said he believed all the queries posed by Sinn  Fein and relayed to London by the Dublin government last week were  "answerable".
The government regards only one of the 20 questions put by Sinn Fein as  involving an explanation of the text of the Joint Declaration.
In the declaration, the government had said they would "uphold the  democratic wishes of a greater number of the people of Northern Ireland."
Sinn Fein challenges the government over the precise definition of this  phrase and asks how it would be measured in practical terms.
