The main opposition parties in Malawi's first  free elections swept parliamentary races in their regional strongholds and  businessman Bakili Muluzi looked set to end the reign of President-for-life  Hastings Kamuzu Banda, preliminary results indicated Wednesday.
Election officials said that vote counting after Tuesday's election had  been suspended in some remote regions until Thursday because of transportation  problems due to heavy rains and fuel shortages.
State radio reported that the opposition Alliance for Democracy (AFORD)  had won all 33 seats in its stronghold in the sparsely populated north.
Muluzi's United Democratic Front (UDF) won nearly 70 of the 76  parliamentary seats up for election in the populous south of the country, said  Mike Nambote, a member of the party's election monitoring task force.
"Indications are that the UDF is leading in both presidential and  parliamentary elections and is likely to form the majority in parliament,"  Nambote said.
Radio reports said Banda's ruling Malawi Congress Party had failed to take  all 68 seats in its own stronghold, the central region, with the UDF having  taken 15 so far.
Nambote said that initial results from the presidential race indicated  that Muluzi was ahead with 170,000 votes, followed by Banda -- the  authoritarian patriarch who has led Malawi since independence in 1964 -- with  95,000 and Chakufwa Chihana of AFORD with 74,000.
Election Commissioner Charles Joyah told state radio that vote counting  has been suspended in some regions due to transport problems, impassable roads  and lack of fuel.
He said heavy rains, notably the remote hilly areas of Chitipa district in  the north, had made roads impassable and polling workers there had been asked  to go home and report Thursday to start counting the votes.
Joyah appealed to all returning officers with transport problems to report  to the Electoral Commission and that military helicopters were on standby to  transport ballot boxes wherever possible.
The problems were likely to delay the announcement of the official results  due Thursday.
Meanwhile, most of Banda's ministers from the south and north, including  vice-president Gwanda Chakuamba, lost their parliamentary seats, the partial  results indicate.
But John Tembo, an influential minister of state who comes from the  centre, won one of the 177 parliamentary seats being contested.
In the opposition, all presidential running mates lost their races,  including Aleke Banda of the UDF and Augustine Mthambala of AFORD.
The fourth presidential contender, Kamlepo Kalua of the Malawi Democratic  Party, was reported to be performing poorly throughout the country, and  candidates from minor parties were all faring badly.
Banda has not allowed television into the country, but results were  broadcast on national radio throughout the day.
Commonwealth observers in the capital Lilongwe told a news conference that  Malawians had been able to vote "freely for the candidate of their choice."
If Muluzi confirms his winning trend he will bring a complete change of  style to the presidency.
Banda, officially 88 but rumoured to be at least 93, has surrounded  himself with a sycophantic court and rituals worthy of an absolute monarch.
President since Malawi became a republic, Banda proclaimed himself  president-for-life five years later, and has left a stamp of fear on a   repressed nation where women are not allowed to wear trousers and men are  forbidden to grow their hair long.
Muluzi, 51, is the antithesis, even in his failings. Jovial and chubby,  Muluzi is an unashamed populist who would never shy from a walkabout among his  people or from making extravagant election promises.
His detractors have dubbed him Muluzi Six Pounds and His Excellency the  Thief, alluding to the six-month jail sentence he served 25 years ago for  stealing six pounds sterling.
But it is water off a duck's back to Muluzi, who has all but erased the  memory of the six years he served in the Banda administration as one of the  president's aides.
He was briefly education minister, in 1976, and rose to the rank of  secretary general of Banda's MCP in 1983, before serving as vice president of  Malawi's chamber of commerce.
