Northern forces loyal to President Ali Abdallah  Saleh said late Thursday they had shot down a southern warplane over the road  to the stronghold of Aden.
A northern military spokesman told the official news agency SABA that  northern troops had also launched a series of air raids against the airport in  Ataq, in Shabwa province about 300 kilometres (180 miles) east of Aden.
As the battle raged around the strategic town of Al Daleh, he said that  northern forces had seized Soviet-built T-62 tanks in Abyan, southeast of  Aden, as well as arms and ammunition from Al Daleh.
Earlier Information Minister Hassan Ahmed al-Lozi said: "The town of Al  Daleh has fallen" to northern troops.
Aid officials in Aden said 60 families, numbering around 300 people, had  arrived there after fleeing Al Daleh 90 kilometres (55 miles) north of Aden,  and were being housed in two schools.
As the two sides traded claim and counter-claim, Lozi said northern forces  had captured a southern mechanised brigade based at Kharaz, about 130  kilometres (80 miles) west of Aden.
But both reports were denied by the southern leadership in Aden, which  said an offensive had been repelled and northern troops had been pushed back  to Kataba, 10 kilometres (six miles) further to the north.
Southern spokesmen in Aden said they launched a counter attack and retook  positions they had lost to their northern rivals.
Earlier Thursday southern forces said they had shot down three northern  warplanes and sunk a warship in the Kharaz region near the strategic Bab  el-Mandab Straits on the Red Sea.
Saleh's General People's Congress called on Yemenis to rally to "the side  of legitimacy to scupper and condemn the crimes committed by the bloodied  Baid" referring to ousted Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid.
In a communique published in Sanaa the GPC called on the Yemenis to  "openly condemn the terrorist band and the traitors in the heart of the  (southern) Yemen Socialist Party."
The armies of the former North and South Yemen have been locked in civil  war since last Thursday, shattering the uneasy four year union between the  conservative north and Marxist south.
Meanwhile, the Arab League held a meeting with Yemeni leaders in Sanaa to  try to broker a ceasefire between Saleh and Baid.
Their feud erupted into all-out war last Thursday, with southern air raids  and Scud missile attacks on Sanaa and a northern offensive targeted on Aden.
