Republicans are crowing over their win of a  congressional seat held for more than a century by the Democrats, touting it  as a victory over President Bill Clinton and a promise of things to come.
"Ron Lewis' election rings a fire alarm at the White House," Haley  Barbour, head of the Republican Congressional Committee, said Wednesday.
Lewis, a fundamentalist Christian minister, soundly defeated Democrat Joe  Prather Tuesday in a special election held to fill the Kentucky seat of the  late William Natcher, a Democrat who had represented the district for a  generation.
The Republican victory is the second this year, they snatched an Oklahoma  seat left empty by a retiring Democrat earlier this month.
And now the party is hailing what they say is a trend that will carry them  to victory in the November legislative vote.
"Frank Lucas knocked the Democrats to their knees with his win in Oklahoma  two weeks ago. Tonight Ron Lewis has sent them to the canvass in Kentucky,"  said Bill Paxon, head of the National Republican Congressional Committee.
"The tidal wave of Republican victories continues," echoed Republican  Leader Senator Bob Dole, who is rumored to be eying a White House run in 1996.
The Democrats predictably downplayed Tuesday's win, pointing out that  while Lewis had a Republican media blitz and a huge campaign fund behind him,  Prather had tried to carry on Natcher's tradition of taking no money from the  party or special interest groups.
And it was also Natcher's grassroots approach at home and his record  18,401 consecutive votes in Washington that gave him such a strong hold on in  a region which has been growing progressively more Republican.
Former President George Bush carried Kentucky in both 1992 and 1988 and  the fundamentalist Christian movement which helped propel former president  Ronald Reagan to victory has lately been been making inroads again in the  south.
This does not augur well for the Democrats, who have 21 of their  legislators retiring this year, 11 of them in southern districts.
With a 256-178 majority in the House, even a clean sweep of the empty  seats in November would leave the Democrats in control, but it would make  Clinton's job of pushing measures through the chamber next year a lot tougher.
Political consultant Tom Edmonds notes that Clinton's bills on gun control  and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) only squeaked by on slim  vote margins in Congress this year.
"The November elections could indeed swing the balance and Clinton should  indeed be worried about it," he said.
He added that Tuesday's Republican victory was not a contest between the  parties but a reflection of the discontent in Kentucky, where voters opposed  NAFTA and are concerned about the president's war against the tobacco  companies -- a key industry in the state.
Lewis, a Christian bookstore owner whose campaign ads portrayed his  opponent as a Clinton clone, also attributed his come-from-behind win to White  House opposition.
"Everywhere I went through the district there were people upset," he said  in his acceptance speech. "They actually were mad."
Lewis must run again in November to hold on to his seat and the Democrats  -- though they have yet to nominate their candidate -- are working hard to see  that he doesn't.
"We'll get the seat back in November. I feel certain of that," said the  head of the state's Democratic party Jim Arnett.
