Bosnian Moslems and Croats will press their demands  for more land at a meeting of the warring factions Wednesday in the French  Alps near here with an international contact group, a Moslem delegate said.
Sources close to the talks said the final delegates from all three sides  had arrived in Geneva Tuesday.
Diplomatic sources said the contact group would start preliminary  bilateral meetings with the belligerents later Tuesday.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe earlier announced that the contact  group would meet in Talloires but had not said the warring parties would also  be there.
Though Geneva has been the usual venue for such talks, the meetings  Tuesday and Wednesday were moved just across the border to the French town of  Talloires, though it was not explained why.
The contact group, which includes experts from the European Union, Russia,  the United States and the United Nations, has been trying to restart the peace  process to end the more than two-year-old conflict.
The Moslem and Croat delegations, which arrived Sunday night, will be led  respectively by the prime minister of the Moslem-led Bosnian government, Haris  Silajdzic, and Croat leader Kresimir Zubak.
The Bosnian Serb delegation arrived Tuesday, headed by Momcilo Krajisnic,  the speaker of their self-proclaimed parliament, the sources said.
Krajisnik said before leaving Belgrade Tuesday that the resumption of  negotiations was "hitting up against some big problems," but did not say what,  the Belgrade news agency BETA reported.
A member of the Moslem delegation who asked not to be named accused the  superpowers Tuesday of trying to "dictate and impose" a solution on  Bosnia-Hercegovina that would not restore peace.
He rejected a European plan for the ethnic division of Bosnia-Hercegovina,  which the contact group backed at a meeting in Geneva on May 13 and urged all  sides to accept.
At that meeting, the contact group called for a four-month ceasefire and a  resumption of peace talks in two weeks.
The Moslem delegate Tuesday said the Moslem and Croat leaders -- who  agreed this year to form a new Moslem-Croat federation in Bosnia-Hercegovina  -- would use their own proposal made in Vienna earlier this month.
That plan gave the federation a greater chunk of land, 58 percent of  Bosnian territory, than the European plan.
The European plan provides 51 percent of the territory for the  Moslem-Croat federation and 49 percent for Bosnian Serbs.
The Moslem delegate said the Moslems and Croats would present themselves as  a "united" front at Talloires and "undertake discussions on the basis" of  their Vienna plan.
"We shall see if the contact group accepts this basis for discussions," he  said.
He likened the European plan to a divorce in which a "husband who savagely  beats his wife and kids" gets the better deal.
The delegate echoed statements by Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic on  Monday, who said he wanted peace "but what we are being offered in not  equitable."
Izetbegovic had charged that "the world is pushing us on the path towards  war by not offering us any alternative."
Diplomatic sources said they expected negotiators first to try to end  fighting, which has continued daily on the ground with the Moslems clearly on  the offensive.
Serb forces have also failed to draw back from an exclusion zone around  the eastern Moslem enclave of Gorazde, despite an agreement Saturday.
Juppe warned Tuesday that "if the parties involved don't want peace we  will act accordingly."
He said the plan offering Moslems and Croats 51 percent "respects Bosnia's  unity," adding that if it were rejected by the warring parties, France would  consider withdrawing its peacekeeping troops from Bosnia-Hercegovina by the  end of the year.
Spain and Britain have also said they may pull their troops from the  war-torn country if there is no breakthrough in the peace process.
Juppe said members of the contact group did not plan to wait for an answer  to their proposal beyond mid-June when they are due to hold another  ministry-level meeting.
