Secretary of State Warren Christopher was  expected to hold a second day of talks with officials here Monday to further  explore means of forging peace between arch foes Syria and Israel.
Christopher held four hours of talks with Syrian President Hafez al-Assad  on Sunday right after his arrival here at the start of his second peace  shuttle between Syria and Israel in as many weeks.
A Syrian presidential spokesman said "the president heard the proposals  that Christopher brought with him and gave Syria's point of view on the peace  process." He did not elaborate.
At the end of the meeting Christopher returned to his hotel room,  declining to make any comments.
The secretary was expected to deliver Israel's response to Assad's  counter-proposals, following an initial Israeli offer of a phased withdrawal  from the strategic Golan Heights.
A US source in his delegation said Christopher was to hold more talks with  Syrian officials Monday although no meeting had been officially scheduled.
Christopher was to leave for Israel early Monday evening and has not ruled  out a return visit to Damascus before Thursday, when he is set to return to  Washington.
On Tuesday he plans to visit the first autonomous Palestinian enclave of  Jericho to assess how self-rule was being implemented, becoming the first  senior foreign dignitary to tour the town since Israeli forces withdrew Friday.
Now that it has secured an accord between Israel and the PLO, the United  States is determined to double its efforts to bring Israel back to the  negotiating table.
"There is a lot of work to do but the two parties are serious and they  have urged us to come back," Christopher told reporters on the plane that  brought him from Geneva.
But he also played down his peace shuttle, saying he did not expect a  breakthrough.
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has offered to return three of five  Druze villages on the heights as a first stage in a three-step withdrawal over  five to eight years from the plateau which Israel conquered in 1967.
Syria rejected the offer and was likely to turn down Israeli proposals that  Christopher try to persuade Damascus to set up a joint military commission  with Israel to "draft security arrangements" for the heights.
Syria has repeatedly said it would not surrender an inch of the heights  and that a total Israeli withdrawal from the plateau must precede any security  arrangements.
The government newspaper Tishrin said Syria was willing to discuss an  Israeli withdrawal from the heights on condition Israel pledged a complete  pullout within an "acceptable and reasonable" time.
The commentary, entitled "Will Israel take the adequate decision?" went on  to say that the ball lay in the Israeli court "and those who give it support,"  in reference to the United States.
Nevertheless, diplomats here and in Beirut said this week that the  exchange of messages between Syria and Israel was a step in the right  direction, although both sides were far from a breakthrough.
A Western diplomat in Damascus said the counter-proposals submitted to  Israel by Syria "included some very specific questions which opened the way  for a  concrete and serious debate."
