Threats of a boycott of the Spanish Grand  Prix gathered pace here on Friday as the opening practice session began in  total mayhem, with most of the Formula One's top teams stuck on the sidelines.
A confrontation between governing body FIA's president Max Mosley to  decide if the race goes ahead now look certain, with Mosley due to arrive at  the Catalunya circuit later on Friday.
Benetton-Ford's cars were banned from the unofficial session for Sunday's  race on Thursday and a series of teams -- Lotus, Ligier, Renault-Williams,  McLaren, and Footwork -- showed solidarity by not taking part on Friday.
The Benetton cars were ruled not to meet governing body's new regulations,  brought in following the deaths of Brazilian Ayrton Senna and Austrian Roland  Ratzenberger at Imola and the Monaco crash which ended with Karl Wendlinger in  a coma.
But Benetton and its main rivals continued to argue on Friday the new  measures, designed to cut engine power and reduce aerodynamic efficiency and  announced by Mosley, had been rushed in and made the cars even more dangerous.
Lotus' Peter Collins said: "The teams want more car safety but we need  time to test the changes.
"Decisions on technical changes should be taken by the engineers, not the  politicians.
"Can you imagine a politician demanding that a Boeing 747's wing should be  shortened by a metre? We've had enough of rules imposed by dictatorship.
"If we run our cars, it will simply be to see how solid the rear wing is.
"We have warned other teams about this problem by giving them details of  the accident that our driver Pedro Lamy was involved in at Silverstone on  Tuesday."
Lamy lost control of his car and crashed while testing a car set to the  new regulations and smashed both his kneecaps.
Only a few drivers took to the track on Friday, including Ferrari's Jean  Alesi and Gerhard Berger.
But Benetton's championship leader Michael Schumacher, who has won the  opening four races of the season, stayed in the stands.
The civil war between FIA and the Formula One teams broke out on Wednesday  when Benetton boss Flavio Briatore, who was in talks with Formula One  Constructors' Association president Bernie Ecclestone on Friday, accused  Mosley of incompetence and warned he would be responsible for any accidents in  Spain.
