Italy's new leaders are hoping that US President Bill  Clinton's wartime commemoration visit, due to start Thursday, will give a  much-needed boost to their credibility after heavy criticism for including  neo-fascists in the government.
There are hopes that the trip, the first important diplomatic event since  media magnate Sylvio Berlusconi's government was formed on May 10, will help  silence warnings from its European partners about the appointment of five  ministers from the neo-fascist National Alliance.
Foreign criticism has been strongest from France, Germany, Belgium and  Greece, with French President Francois Mitterrand warning Italian leaders that  developments there would be closely watched.
But even in Italy itself, there is still sharp debate about the prospect  of celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Allied landing in Italy when the  political descendants of Italy's own fascist leader Benito Mussolini are  holding office for the first time since World War Two.
"How can you reconcile the anti-fascism of the Allies with a national  politics that does not stand up for this anti-fascism?" asked the daily La  Repubblica.
The new government underlined the importance it gave to the Clinton visit  with a mission to Washington last week by Foreign Minister Antonio Martino.  Prime Minister Berlusconi also insisted in comments to the Washington Post  that his government was free from all fascist influence.
"No one in my government is opposed to freedom and democracy," he stressed.
These efforts appeared to bear some fruit when Clinton voiced support for  Berlusconi on Saturday, saying "he should be given a chance" and describing  strong criticism as "premature."
The US president will begin his mission Thursday by meeting Italian  President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro before being received at the Vatican by Pope  John Paul II, who has just left hospital after being treated for a broken leg.
On Thursday afternoon he is due to hold talks with Berlusconi before  addressing the citizens of Rome from Capitol Hill, the city mayor's office.
Friday will be devoted to the memory of American soldiers who died 50 years  ago on the beaches of Anzio, attacking Germany's southern flank and helping in  the liberation of Italy.
Clinton and Scalfaro will visit the cemetary in Nettuno near Anzio, 40  kilometres (25 miles) south of Rome, where over 7,800 US soldiers lie buried.
