North Korea has put prospects for normalizing  its ties with the United States at serious risk by refueling its nuclear plant  in defiance of international inspectors, the White House said Tuesday.
Spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said new talks sought by Pyongyang on helping  its economy could be suspended if the communist regime continues to remove  fuel rods at the facility without verification that the plutonium has not been  diverted to produce weapons.
"We said that there would be no obstacles to continuing a third round (of  talks) if the North Koreans first completed the March inspections, and second,  allowed the refueling to take place in a way that did not break the continuity  of safeguards," said Myers.
The warning comes after the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)  raised concerns that Pyongyang had accelerated the refueling to a pace which  could make it impossible to determine that the nuclear plant was used for  exclusively peaceful ends.
In Vienna however the IAEA said it was still technically possible to  verify if the fuel rods were being used for producing arms and offered North  Korea three options for monitoring the operation.
In a statement the IAEA said it had outlined "technical options which  might still, at this late stage (...) be viable to preserve the Agency's  ability to verify the history" of the reactor core.
"No technical or safety reasons stand in the way of any one of the  options," which would specifically show "whether fuel has been diverted from  the reactor in past years," it said.
If North Korea rejects the options, IAEA director Hans Blix will issue a  report to the United Nations by Thursday and could travel to UN headquarters  in New York on Friday to brief the Security Council on the situation,  diplomats said.
Earlier, State Department spokesman Michael McCurry also warned that  Pyongyang's actions could jeopardize the upcoming talks.
"At any point that the IAEA notifies us that there's no longer an ability  to understand the operating history of the reactor, that has been effectively  destroyed, the premise for our dialogue with North Korea will simlarly have  been destroyed," said McCurry.
President Bill Clinton and his South Korean counterpart Kim Young-Sam  spoke by telephone for about 20 minutes Monday to reaffirm their support for  the UN Security Council's message Monday urging North Korea to allow a  resumption of inspections.
Pentagon spokeswoman Kathleen Delaski expressed grave concern over the  situation and said the United States was readying contingency measures to  boost its defensive capabilities on the Korean peninsula if needed.
"It is not necessarily adding more troops to Korea. It's more being ready  to improve our readiness so that we can reinforce rapidly," she said without  elaborating.
The United States has some 38,000 troops stationed in South Korea and has  dispatched a battery of Patriot missiles to Seoul to counter a threat from the  North, which has said it would consider UN sanctions an act of war.
US Senator Sam Nunn, head of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said  North Korea must realize that the United States and its allies are serious  about keeping controls on nuclear technology in Korea.
"North Korea has to realize this is not an area that America is going to  back down," said Nunn in a television interview.
And he warned that if the crisis sparked a war North Korea would be  crushed.
"North Korea would be devastated and I think that regime would be  completely destroyed if there was a war," said the senator.
North Korea maintains its nuclear program has only peaceful ends, but the  United States has suspected it is producing weapons.
