The African-Caribbean-Pacific (ACP) group of  developing countries begins a three-day meeting with the European Union in  Mbabane on Wednesday to revise conditions for aid and preferential trade.
Heading the agenda for the ministerial-level meeting in the Swazi capital  is a mid-term review of the 10-year Lome IV trade-and-aid convention which  expires in 2000.
Also certain to be discussed at the Mbabane meeting are relations with the  new post-apartheid South Africa, and whether it would dominate the ACP group  if it were accepted as a member.
The ACP members are hoping that the EU will increase the figure of 12  billion Ecu (about 14 billion dollars) which the Europeans coughed up over the  first five-year period to finance the convention.
Last February, however, British Secretary of State for Development Lynda  Chalker warned that there could be no question of increasing the amount over  the second half of the decade.
And the EU's executive European Commission has said that, whatever the  amount, it will be conditional on improvements in EU-ACP relations which are  unpalatable to some members of the group.
A commission spokesman said the EU wanted to strengthen a clause on human  rights and commit ACP members to democracy, the rule of law and proper  management of public resources.
The commission also wants to upgrade its political dialogue with the ACP  group and inject more efficiency into trading arrangements -- a concern shared  by the ACP countries which claim that red tape often holds up EU aid.
Brussels wants to bring the Lome Convention into line with the union's  expanding relations with countries formerly under the Soviet sphere by placing  greater emphasis on human rights and free market democracies.
The ACP countries, on the other hand, are worried that the EU's attention  and aid money might be turning away from them towards the developing economies  of eastern Europe.
The Lome Convention, established in 1975 as a managed trade mechanism to  give the former colonies of European countries privileged access to the old  European Economic Community, is not expected to outlast the decade.
EU Development Commissioner Manuel Marin warned recently that the  convention could not survive unless it adapted to changes such as economic  recession in Europe, the end of the Cold War and new patterns of free trade  trade.
At the ACP group's request, South Africa was not invited as an observer to  this week's meeting, because there might be hard words about any South African  application to join Lome in order to get better trade access to the EU.
The European Commission is anxious to weave South Africa into a system of  regional cooperation.
But diplomats say several Lome countries fear that the powerful South  African economy could quickly dominate the ACP grouping if it were allowed in,  meaning a smaller slice of the EU trade-and-aid cake for everyone.
The new government of Nelson Mandela has not yet decided whether to apply  for Lome membership, or to press instead for a strong bilateral agreement with  the EU.
Lome membership might bring better trade terms, although even this is not  sure since the ACP's agricultural exports seeking preferential access to the  union often surpasses the EU's import ceilings.
Furthermore, South Africa would have to be classified officially as a  developing country in order to qualify for Lome membership.
This would mean that access to International Monetary Fund and World Bank  funds would be more difficult.
The EU and South Africa are expected to begin negotiations soon on the  future economic relationship, but no date has yet been set.
