Roger Penske's calculated risk on  the new Mercedes-Benz engine paid off with a victory in Sunday's Indianapolis  500.
But after pole-sitting winner Al Unser Jnr and teammate Emerson Fittipaldi  dominated the eight million-dollar race, many expect race officials to change  rules to ban the motor from future Indy starts.
"Nobody should start throwing cold water on what Al and Emerson have  accomplished," Penske said. "We won't know if they change the rules until they  examine the race. I just hope they make a decision soon enough."
Fittipaldi led 145 laps and Unser paced another 48. Their Mercedes-powered  cars lapped the field by the race's midpoint and were not seriously challenged  in speed during practice, qualifuing or the race.
The Mercedes engine provided 1,000 horsepower compared to 800 for most  other engines here. Ilmor engineering took advantage of a rule loophole to  develop a one-race engine at a million-dollar cost. It is legal in no other  Indy-car race but it became the first new engine to win Indy in 70 years.
Penske's announcement of the engine in March surprised rivals and came too  late for them to consider duplicating the feat. As a result, uncompetitive  rivals hope Indy rules are changed to forbid a return of this type of motor.
"It reminded me of a glorified Formula One race," car owner and four-time  Indy winner A.J. Foyt said. "I said all month they would play with us and we  were running for third. But Roger did a heck of a job. Everyone should get off  their rears and quit crying."
"It's a shame to see our circuit become like F1, where money controls who  wins," Foyt said. "But you will see a lot of people build these motors," Foyt  said.
Barry Green, car owner for runner-up Jacques Villeneuve, wants no changes.  He wants the chance to meet Penske on his terms next year.
"It would be a lot fairer," Green said. "They just had too much horsepower  because of unfair rules."
Third-place Bobby Rahal said any team wishing to be competitive here must  duplicate the million-dollar Penske effort for this race alone.
"All it will do is multiply the cost of racing twice for every team,"  Rahal said.
