Cambodian government leaders arrived in  Pyongyang Thursday on the eve of peace talks with the Khmer Rouge as a surge  in fighting reportedly claimed the lives of 200 guerrillas and highlighted the  problems besetting the conference.
In northwest Cambodia, the deputy governor of Battambang, Serey Kosal,  said 200 Khmer Rouge guerrillas were killed in fighting near Treng as  guerrillas fled from a government advance.
Most of the dead were killed by artillery fire but some 50 others had  bullet wounds in the back of the head, he said, adding that he believed the  rebels were shot by their commanders for retreating. There was no independent  confirmation of this account.
Treng marks the frontline held prior to an offensive by the government in  March that led to the capture -- and then the disastrous loss -- of Pailin,  the Khmer Rouge's supposed "capital."
Diplomats said the upsurge in fighting and hardline positions adopted by  many on both sides, in a conflict that has been going on for decades, made  hopes for a comprehensive peace plan emerging from the talks appear slim.
King Norodom Sihanouk and co-premiers Prince Norodom Ranariddh and Hun Sen  arrrived in Pyongyang Thursday for the talks, the official Chinese news agency  Xinhua said. The Khmer Rouge delegation will be headed by the faction's  nominal leader, Khieu Samphan.
The agenda will be based on a peace proposal put forward several months  ago by King Sihanouk to give government positions to the Khmer Rouge, provided  they open up zones under their control and join the government army.
Military observers said that the rebels were unlikely to agree to the  king's proposal, as the radical faction's hardliners were pushing the military  option after the recapture of Pailin.
Even Hun Sen, who has been strongly opposed to making concessions to the  Khmer Rouge, has agreed to negotiate but he told journalists prior to his  departure for Pyongyang Tuesday that he held out little hope of success.
Observers said the fact the talks were taking place was in itself positive.
"I think peace is a good subject in a country where war has been going on  for so long," said one senior western diplomat. "The fact that (they) are  sitting down and trying to reach peace again, that's a good sign."
Despite widespread hatred for the Khmer Rouge, responsible for the deaths  of some one million Cambodians during a four-year reign of terror that began  in 1975, the government realises that peace is necessary for economic  development.
"The Khmer Rouge have to seize their opportunity, have peace and take part  in the reconstruction of Cambodia," Finance Minister Sam Rainsy told AFP.
"If we do not make peace now, we will only incur more loss, suffering and  destruction," he said. "It's a pity because the meager resources that we have  in this country should be devoted to development instead of making war."
The Khmer Rouge have accused the government of trying to sabotage  negotiations by insisting on a ceasefire beginning June 15 if the two sides  failed to reach a political solution at the peace talks in North Korea.
The rebels have also questioned why the government was pushing for a  ceasefire when it was actively seeking military aid from abroad.
Another variable in the peace process is the role of King Sihanouk, the  moving force behind getting the two sides to sit down and talk, but who told  journalists two weeks ago that he was seriously ill and would die soon.
