Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin arrives  here Thursday for an official visit likely to focus on overcoming bilateral  trade problems and expanding economic cooperation, diplomats said.
Chernomyrdin, who is on his maiden visit to China, is the first Russian  prime minister to come here since the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union.
He is to meet with Premier Li Peng and President Jiang Zemin in Beijing,  as well as taking in Shanghai and the northeastern city of Dalian during his  four-day stay.
The visit, during which six or seven agreements are due to be signed,  comes amid a flurry of diplomacy between the neighbours aimed at furthering a  process of detente begun in 1989 when former Russian president Michael  Gorbachev's visit ended a three-decade rift between the communist giants.
It follows a recent visit here by a Russian parliamentary delegation and  will coincide with the three-day second session of the Sino-Russian Joint  Commission on Economic, Trade and Technical Cooperation which begins  Wednesday.
"The main issues during the premier's visit will be bilateral relations,  especially technical, economic and trade cooperation because we have a lot of  problems to be discussed and sorted out," a Russian Embassy source said.
"They are practical problems hindering the development of trade and  cooperation," including the need to improve transportation links and to shift  from barter trade -- currently accounting for some 70 percent of transactions  -- to cash exchanges and other forms of cooperation, he said.
Trade volume jumped some 31 percent last year to 7.7 billion dollars, but  volume in the first quarter of 1994 fell some 40 percent according to official  estimates, while other figures put the drop as high as 70 percent.
China's Economic Information newspaper recently blamed the fall on tariff  increases, red tape, poor quality products, rising Chinese export costs  following January's currency unification and Russia's move to stem the flood  of Chinese crossing the border by imposing visa restrictions this year.
"Large quantities of people have been travelling in and out," said the  Russian source. "The question of bringing this under control is a big  problem."
Some 2.5 million people crossed the border in both directions last year.
The Russian premier, who will be accompanied by representatives from  nearly all the country's ministries and state committees, is also expected to  discuss new areas of cooperation in his talks with Chinese leaders.
Chinese foreign trade ministry official Geng Xuncai said this week that  Beijing hoped for more cooperation with Russia in agriculture as well as the  high-tech sectors of aerospace, aeronautics, chemicals, pharmaceuticals and  machinery.
Geng said he believed present trade difficulties were only temporary,  expressing the hope that "the two nations will maintain friendly and stable  cooperation."
The embassy source said the talks would also cover the issue of Russian  assistance for the technical renovation of 156 factories built in the early  1950s with Soviet assistance, as well as possible Russian participation in  major Chinese projects such as the Three Gorges Dam.
The Russian and Chinese leaders are also likely to touch on further  development of military cooperation and remaining territorial disputes,  although sources emphasised these issues would mainly be left to expert  groups.
