Petr Korda, who overwhelmed Stefan  Edberg on Monday, was on the receiving end against French Open champion Sergi  Bruguera as the Czech Republic were beaten by Spain at the World Team Cup on  Wednesday.
Bruguera won 6-0, 4-6, 6-1 as Korda offered only a limited challenge.  Carlos Costa then clinched the tie for Spain with a 6-1, 6-4 victory over  Karel Novacek.
By keeping the ball in play and waiting for Korda's errors, Bruguera  coasted through the first set and broke for a 3-1 lead in the second before  the Czech finally snapped into gear.
Angry with yet another netted backhand, he began to show much more control  and struck the ball with such purpose that he forced a surprised Bruguera into  errors.
Korda volleyed a winner at the net to break back for 2-3 and then took his  first lead when he broke to love for 4-3.
He won 11 points in a row to build a 5-3 lead, survived a break point at  5-4 when Bruguera sent a lob long, and took the set when he forced Bruguera to  make a forehand error.
But in the final set Korda let up the pressure, winning only one point in  the first two games. Bruguera once more gained control and two double-faults  helped him gain a second break to lead 5-1.
In a last ditch defence, Korda held three break points in the final game,  but Bruguera held off the challenge to claim victory in 58 minutes.
"I started very well, but he played a great game at 3-2 (in the 2nd set)  and got into the match," said Bruguera.
"I lost my concentration a little bit. But in the third set after I broke  him I played a great match."
Next week Bruguera defends his title at the French Open, and although Pete  Sampras is the favourite he believes he can make his mark.
"So many players can win but I have no problems and am confident. I've had  treatment on my shoulder injury and today it felt perfect", he said.
Edberg took a little longer to overcome Wally Masur as Sweden took the  lead over Australia, winning 6-2, 7-6 (10/8).
After a comfortable 1st set Edberg took an early break in the 2nd, but  Masur pulled back to 3-3 and held a set point in the tiebreak when Edberg  netted a return.
The Swede saved himself with a volley and reached his fifth match point  when Masur netted a backhand. A good serve was then returned wide to give  Edberg victory.
