Suspected Hindu nationalists Tuesday shot dead a  socialist as tens of thousands of people voted across India's most populous  state to pick six lawmakers, officials said.
Some 600,000 voters, or half the electorate, cast their ballots in six  constituencies of Uttar Pradesh in by-elections which were originally  scheduled for May 26 but were put off by the Election Commission.
The main battle in the state is between the state's ruling two-party  alliance led by the Socialist Party, and the Hindu-revivalist Bharatiya Janata  Party (BJP, Indian People's Party), the country's main opposition group.
Police said two BJP activists, including a lawmaker, were arrested after  they allegedly shot dead a Socialist Party member at Nidhauli Kalan, one of  the six constituencies. No further details were available.
But the 10-hour balloting elsewhere in Uttar Pradesh, involving some 2,000  polling stations and 251 candidates, passed off peacefully, officials said  over telephone from the state capital Lucknow.
Thousands of police and paramilitary forces were deployed in the state,  and the Election Commission used coded ballot boxes and videotaped the polling  as part of stern measures to curb bogus voting.
Brisk voting was also reported from a sole constituency in the northern  state of Punjab, the Press Trust of India (PTI) reported. Special commandos  and 2,000 troops were deployed there to prevent violence by Sikh separatists.
The Uttar Pradesh by-elections are a crucial test for Prime Minister P.V.  Narasimha Rao's Congress (I) party, which lost its former stronghold to the  BJP in 1991 and to the Socialist Party last November.
The Congress bagged five out of eight parliament seats and five out of 10  state assembly seats in by-elections across the country on Thursday, but  failed to make significant headway in opposition bastions.
On Tuesday, The Pioneer newspaper said in an editorial titled "No cause  for self-congratulation:" "It would be extremely foolhardy for Congress  election managers to ignore the danger signals..."
