European Union agricultural ministers agreed here  Tuesday to reinforce the fight against "mad cow disease", but rejected German  complaints that British beef could be unsafe because tainted with the disease.
They instructed the EU's veterinary committee to consider banning the use  of animal protein in cattle feed, and other measures to prevent the spread of  the disease, known formally as bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE).
Diplomats said the decision had calmed a row between London and Bonn over  German threats to ban imports of British beef. The European Commission has  threatened to contest such a ban at the European Court of Justice.
German Agriculture Minister Jochen Borchert said during a meeting of the  EU's agricultural council that Germany would wait for the results of the  committee's work before deciding on whether to pursue its demands for a ban.
German imports of British beef have plummeted over the past year because  of allegations that it has been unsafe for human consumption since an initial  outbreak of "mad cow" disease in Britain in 1985.
British Agriculture Minister Gillian Shephard said Germany had received  "not one iota of support" from other countries or the EU's executive European  Commission for its proposed ban on British beef.
But EU Agricultural Commissioner Rene Steichen said the veterinary  committee would make a "fine analysis" of the German complaints, in a bid to  allay German public opinion.
Shephard told journalists that the campaign to ban British beef was  motivated by internal German politics ahead of national and regional elections.
She quoted Borchert as saying the controversy was a "political hot potato"  in Germany, and added that Germany had produced no scientific evidence to back  its claim that British beef could pose a threat to human health.
"British beef is safe," Shephard insisted.
The agriculture ministers endorsed proposals for an EU-wide ban on the use  of animal proteins in animal feed, which is considered as a possible cause of  BSE. Such a ban has been in place in Britain since 1988.
They also instructed the veterinary committee to harmonise health  inspections throughout the EU's cattle industry and to tighten up other  regulations such as notifications of BSE outbreaks.
