A congressional critic of President Bill  Clinton's move to de-link China's trade privileges from human rights concerns  said Sunday she had strong support among legislators for tougher action.
Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat from California, is working with Senate Majority  leader George Mitchell on legislation following the decision Thursday to renew  China's most favored nation trading status.
"We have the argument and we have a great deal of support in the  Congress," she said in a televised interview. "We believe that the legislation  will find a good following in the Congress."
The final draft of the legislation has not been completed. It was expected  to target Chinese state-owned enterprises, particularly those run by the  military, but spare the private sector.
Pelosi acknowledged it would be unrealistic to try to reverse Clinton's  decision on MFN, but said additional sanctions might win backing as a means to  force the Chinese to release more political prisoners.
But analysts said that beyond embarassing Clinton, even the more limited  option stood little chance of passage since a two-thirds vote of both houses  of Congress would be needed to reverse a presidential veto.
Pelosi again criticised Clinton's decision to abandon the use of trade as  a lever with China on human rights. "It strengthened the hand of the  hard-liners in China. It was definitely a victory for them," she said.
She rejected the argument that it was essential to avoid any action that  would endanger the 40-billion dollar a year trade relationship, citing China's  large surplus and the barriers it has to many US products.
"In the past few weeks the business community has created this myth that  the United States is the job winner in this debate," she said. "By and large,  that is not the case. We are at a great disadvantage in our trade  relationship."
Democratic Representative Richard Gephardt, the House majority leader,  agreed a stronger message had to be sent to Beijing. He backed added measures  but not total revocation of the MFN and its preferential tariffs.
"If you think this is not a good policy of linking trade and human rights,  all you have to do is look at South Africa," the Missouri legislator said in a  separate televised interview.
But Democratic Senator Bill Bradley supported Clinton, arguing that beyond  economic considerations the United States would need Chinese help on issues  such as North Korea's refusal to allow inspections of its nuclear sites.
Bradley, from New Jersey, said Clinton's decision was "consistent with our  overall economic objective and our geopolitical interests."
