Nineteen heads of state and government will  attend the 50th anniversary celebrations of the D-Day landings on the beaches  of Normandy on June 6, an invasion that signalled the beginning of the end for  Nazi Germany.
Between 25,000 and 35,000 veterans from the United States, Britain, Canada  and free forces from German-occupied Europe will also attend ceremonies to  commemorate the biggest sea-borne invasion the world has known. Parallel  ceremonies start in England next Saturday.
US President Bill Clinton and Britain's Queen Elizabeth will take part  along with French host Francois Mitterrand. They will be joined by monarchs  and presidents from the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia,  Belgium and Luxembourg.
Among the prime ministers will be the heads of government of Australia,  New Zealand and Canada.
The day before the anniversary on June 5, US paratroopers and a group of  veterans will re-enact landings over the Amfreville marshes. In 1944, the  veterans liberated the first French village of Saint-Mere-l'Eglise.
British paras will jump near Pegasus bridge on the canal linking the  Normandy capital of Caen with the sea to commemorate the glider-borne landings  overnight on June 5 when Pegasus and another key bridge over the nearby River  Orne were seized from the Germans.
The landings were the precursor to a massive landing craft invasion of  five beaches on the Normandy coast in face of heavy German resistance that at  the end of the day on June 6 left the allies with a sometimes precarious hold  on occupied France.
Visitors and their French hosts will be strung out in ceremonies along the  five beaches of Utah, Omaha, Gold, Juno and Sword throughout the day with the  highlight at "bloody" Omaha, where the Americans almost came to grief losing  3,000 casualties.
An international ceremony will be held at Omaha to be attended by Clinton,  Mitterrand and Queen Elizabeth.
Close to 15,000 French troops have been mobilised to deal with the  logistics of the ceremonies and transport veterans, while mobile clinics,  doctors and helicopter ambulances have been layed on.
Meanwhile 7,000 paramilitary gendarmes will patrol roads which have been  banned to ordinary traffic up to 20 kilometres (15 miles) from the ceremonies.  Hotels and other tourist accommodation have been fully booked for months.
D-Day fighters won a foothold for themselves on June 6, breaching what  Hitler called his Atlantic Wall of concrete gun emplacements along the French  coast, but much heavy fighting remained to be done.
More than 132,000 men - 75,000 British and Canadians and 57,000 Americans  - had disembarked with their weapons and vehicles, but it took another three  weeks to capture the first deep-water port at Cherbourg and six weeks to seize  Caen, which was virtually destroyed by allied bombing in the process.
Another three months passed before Paris was liberated on August 25.
But the human cost of taking the pressure off the Red Army on the Russian  Front and speeding the end of World War II was relatively light. The number of  Allied killed on D-Day was 2,500, with other casualties totalling 7,700.
