The United States is seeking to grant Central  American countries free trade benefits on some three billion dollars in annual  textile exports, US Vice President Al Gore said Tuesday.
Speaking at a summit meeting here with seven Central American leaders,  Gore said President Bill Clinton's administration would send a bill to  Congress this week that would remove tariffs on the region's textile and  clothing exports to members of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
NAFTA groups Canada, Mexico and the United States in a mega-market of 360  million consumers.
Central American countries currently export some three billion dollars in  textiles and clothing annually to the United States alone.
Having unveiled the carrot, however, Gore said Central American countries  would have to expand market access to their markets for US-made textiles and  clothes, while easing foreign investment, tightening intellectual property  laws and cooperating on labor and environmental issues.
Gore, who described the meeting as a success, also discussed with regional  leaders corruption and democratic government issues, and the idea of making  Central America into a showcase of sustainable development.
The isthmus' leaders had said they would try to urge Gore to consider a a  phased incorporation of Central American countries into NAFTA, but there was  no immediate sign he planned to push the trade deal further for now.
Costa Rican Foreign Minister Fernando Naranjo said countries on the  Central American isthmus were hoping to make up for economic losses suffered  due to structural adjustment programs implemented in the past decade to cut  government budget deficits.
These reforms have hurt the poorest of the poor on the isthmus, with a  total population of 29 million people.
The presidents of Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador, Panama  and Honduras, as well as Belize's premier, also hammered out proposals to be  presented at a June Ibero-American summit set for Cartagena, Colombia, and a  summit of leaders from throughout the Americas hosted by Clinton in Miami in  December.
The US vice president has become Clinton's point man for Latin America at  a time when US ties to Central America, and the region as a whole, are  undergoing a fundamental post-Cold war reorientation, which so far has focused  on the US idea of "trade, not aid."
During the Cold War, ties tended to be focussed on the US fear of a  communist penetration of Central America, and US military and economic aid  flowed in to stave off Soviet influence.
During the 1980s, the US government sent 15 billion dollars in military and  economic aid to Central America, according to the Congressional Research  Service in Washington.
One of the biggest recipients was El Salvador, where leftist guerrillas  and the government fought for nearly 12 years before they made peace in 1992.
In addition to Gore and host Honduran President Carlos Roberto Reina, the  participants in the summit were Presidents Jose Maria Figueres (Costa Rica),  Guillermo Endara (Panama), Ramiro de Leon Carpio (Guatemala), Violeta Chamorro  (Nicaragua), Alfredo Cristiani (El Salvador) as well as Belizean Prime  Minister Manuel Esquivel.
