Israeli warplanes blasted Hezbollah positions in  south Lebanon on Tuesday as Moslem fundamentalists vowed to avenge Israel's  abduction of a guerrilla chief.
Airborne Israeli commandos snatched Mustafa Dirani, a leader of the  Resistance of the Faithful, in a raid Saturday to retrace airman Ron Arad, who  went missing in 1986.
Two bombers fired 28 air-to-ground missiles at Hezbollah strongholds in  the Iqlim al-Tuffah hills near the southern port of Sidon in seven bombing  runs. There were no immediate reports of casualties.
Police in south Lebanon said two other aircraft serving as cover carried  out high altitude flights over the Iqlim al-Tuffah and fired decoys. Lebanese  army troops deployed in the region opened up with anti-aircraft guns.
Israel's proxy South Lebanon Army (SLA) militia fired heavy artillery from  positions facing Hezbollah at roads in the Iqlim al-Tuffah to prevent the  guerrillas from sending in reinforcements.
During the night Israeli choppers swept through valleys used by Hezbollah  guerrillas to infiltrate Israel's "security zone" in south Lebanon, firing  machine guns and dozens of flares.
A military spokesman in Jerusalem said the planes had attacked Hezbollah  training camps and bases used by the group, southeast of the port of Sidon,  for anti-Israeli operations.
They returned safely to base after hitting their targets, the Israeli  spokesman said.
"Israel has made us cry but we promise to make it cry even more," over  Dirani's abduction, the secretary general of the Iranian-backed Hezbollah,  Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah, told a press conference in Beirut.
"The confrontation with Israel is no longer limited to a specific  geographical location (because) the enemy has chosen to widen the scope of  confrontation.
"Resistance fighters will retaliate from the usual places and unexpected  ones," he said.
"The extent of our plans and our retaliation must be as big as the  operation itself," Nasrallah said, calling on the Lebanese authorities not to  confine Hezbollah's anti-Israeli attacks to south Lebanon.
The government has recognised Hezbollah's right to fight Israeli  occupation of a "security zone" on the international border as long as its  attacks and armed presence are confined to the south.
Israel launched a seven-day blitz of south Lebanon to stop Katyusha rocket  attacks on its northern border region last July, killing 132 people and  forcing half a million to flee south Lebanon.
The operation ended with a US-sponsored understanding between Israel,  Lebanon and Syria to halt both rocket attacks on northern Israel and the  bombing of villages in south Lebanon.
Lebanon sent a three-point note of protest note to the United Nations  branding Dirani's abduction "an act of piracy" which violated Lebanese  security and violated its sovereignty, Foreign Minister Fares Bweiz said.
Prime Minister Rafic Hariri charged that the abduction "proved that Israel  is not serious in the search for peace."
Lebanon and Israel have failed to make progress in peace negotiations  since October 1991.
A senior foreign ministry official said Lebanon also called on Israel to  release Dirani, adding that Beirut reserved the right to call for a Security  Council meeting.
Dirani, who is known by the alias Abu Ali, was a former security chief for  the Moslem Shiite Amal militia until 1988 when he joined ranks with Hezbollah  movement before setting up his own faction.
Another leader of the Resistance of the Faithful, Zakariya Hamzeh, has  said Dirani had "no further involvement" with Arad since he left Amal, which  captured the airman when his plane was shot down over south Lebanon.
