Vice President Joshua Nkomo warned white  Zimbabweans Saturday they would ignite a race war unless they learned the  meaning of racial harmony and national unity.
In his first speech after attending the inauguration of South African  President Nelson Mandela, an impassioned Nkomo said that while it was clear  that all races there regarded the country as their own, Zimbabwean whites had  not embraced the policy of national reconciliation preached by the government  at independence in 1980.
"This is not what our heroes died for (in the war for independence),"  Nkomo told community leaders and farmers in the small south-western town of  Gwanda.
"Soon they shall be turning in their graves and a civil war will start,"  said the ageing former guerrilla leader. "Mark my words."
Nkomo said he had been impressed by the number of whites who had  participated in the celebrations to mark majority rule in South Africa and the  way white children had marched and danced with blacks.
This did not happen in Zimbabwe, where whites created separate  organisations, clubs and schools for themselves, he said.
"White parents, where are your children? Do you want us to fetch them out  so that they can participate in national functions?
"They are our children too. There is absolutely nobody who has a right to  hide them," the local ZIANA news agency reported Nkomo as saying.
He said that while the white community dominated the economy and blacks  suffered there would be a civil war, and called for all races to work together.
"We do not have to kiss each other, it is not necessary. But we have to  work together as a people if we are to succeeed in anything," he said.
Domination of Zimbabwe's economy by whites, who make up just one percent  of the country's 10 million people, has become an increasingly volatile  political issue, frequently referred to by both Nkomo and President Robert  Mugabe.
The government faces a general election within a year, with most black  Zimbabweans suffering economic hardships under a World Bank-backed Economic  Structural Adjustment Programme.
