The United States decision to renew China's  Most-Favored-Nation (MFN) trading status in no way affects US support for  Taiwan and Tibet, admininstration officials said Thursday.
President Bill Clinton ended months of speculation Thursday renewing  China's MFN status and pledging to delink human rights issues from the renewal  of the annual arrangement that gives Chinese products low-tariff access to the  US market.
Last year, Clinton made MFN renewal in 1994 contingent upon improved human  rights conditions in China. Many observers regarded his decision Thursday as a  total reversal.
"We will not play games with our one-China policy. We will continue to  strengthen our unofficial ties with Taiwan," said Assistant Secretary of State  for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Winston Lord.
Lord said the policy of recognizing the People's Republic of China as the  sole national government of China while supporting Taiwan has been successful.  It has strengthened ties with Beijing and maintained a strong friendship with  Taiwan, he said.
"It's worked for many administrations. It's going to work under this  administration," Lord said.
Lord said US ties have strengthened Taiwan's security, economic  development, and movement towards human rights and democracy.
National Security Advisor Anthony Lake said a review of US policy on  Taiwan "will be moving along in the next few weeks."
Lord denied that the administration had put the review on hold during the  buildup to the MFN decision.
One of the principal architects of linking human rights to MFN, Lord  evaded questions on whether he would resign following Clinton's apparent  reversal.
Lade said that Clinton's renewal of China's MFN status would also not  affect Washington's position on Tibet.
"We are very dissappointed that the Chinese government did not yet agree  to enter into a dialogue with the Dalai Lama in the wake of the Dalai Lama's  statements that the question of independence would not be on the agenda for  those talks," said Lake.
"We are, of course, very disturbed by many of the Chinese actions in Tibet  with regard to Tibetan culture and people. So that item will remain very much  on our agenda," he added.
