British author Salman Rushdie was presented with  the European prize for literature Monday by the Austrian Minister for  Education and Culture Rudolf Scholten.
The prize, which was awarded to Rushdie in 1992 and includes a cash prize  of 17,000 dollars, was handed over amid strict security at the ministry.
Rushdie has been living in hiding since he was condemned to death by the  late Iranian leader Ayatollah Khomeini for allegedly blaspheming Islam in his  novel "The Satanic Verses."
The decision of a jury of Austrian authors to award Rushdie the prize was  kept secret for a year because authorities here said they could not ensure his  security in Vienna.
But public outrage and Rushdie's willingness to travel to Austria to  receive the prize forced the government to reconsider its position.
The writer was emotional during the ceremony saying he had almost  forgotten what it was like to be in a room full of people discussing his work.
Later during a press conference, the location of which was kept secret  until the last minute, he denounced the "terrorist regime in Iran," which he  said was "seeking to export that terrorism to European countries.
"There needs to be at some point a decision made whether that will be  tolerated or not," he said.
Rushdie, alluding to the strict security measures involved with his visit  here, said it was abnormal that such measures had to be taken in order for a  European citizen to meet fellow Europeans.
"If you need proof that there is a foreign power interfering in internal  affairs of your country, there is the proof," he said.
He added that European countries must increase the pressure on Iran "until  it understands that it cannot kill citizens of people it wants to trade with,  that it cannot murder its own dissidents on European soil."
Rushdie and Scholten announced Monday the creation of a special literary  prize for authors who are persecuted but may not enjoy the same international  acclaim as Rushdie. The award will be given by a jury from the Council of  Europe.
"It is not a money prize but rather a publicity prize," Scholten said.
European countries such as Spain, Portugal and Austria have already pledged  to publish the winner's work in their language.
