After basking in almost three weeks of  historic glory which saw the death of apartheid, South Africans took a final  break this weekend before getting back to work and school Monday.
Big business and schools turned a blind eye to two and a half weeks of  disruption that included four public holidays and spontaneous and organised  parties country-wide after South Africans voted overwhelmingly on April 26-29  for Nelson Mandela's African National Congress (ANC).
Celebrations reached a crescendo on Tuesday when Nelson Mandela took the  oath in front of an auspicious array of world leaders to become the country's  first democratically-elected president.
But the party is now over, and for Mandela's new multi-racial government,  this means facing the awesome task of providing the country's 2.5 million  unemployed with jobs and building 2.5 million houses for the homeless.
It also means tackling the vast discrepancy in quality of education  between the country's minority whites and majority blacks. At the end of 1993  about 40  percent of black pupils passed their final year examinations,  compared to 96 percent of whites.
In an editorial headlined "At the end of it all we're on our own," the  Star newspaper said: "The pitfalls of the future lie in ... how South Africa  extends the means by which it gives all its citizens their place in the sun.  Addressing the majority's aspirations will require more than a political  solution; the new South Africa will live or die by the economic decisions it  takes."
Selby Tindleni, a schoolteacher and ANC worker in the townships  surrounding Cape Town, said Saturday that the day after Mandela's inauguration  unemployed people were queueing up outside town council offices demanding jobs.
"They say Mandela has promised them jobs and they want them now," he said.  "We need to explain to them that these things take time."
With the demise of white-minority rule, aid of up to five billion rand  (1.3 billion dollars) is poised to pour into South Africa, the Star newspaper  said.
But, it cautioned in a front-page story, the first 1.7 billion rand (472  million dollars) promised over the next 12 months is nowhere near enough to  lift an economy trying to emerge from a five-year recession.
It is half the sum South Africa borrowed from the International Monetary  Fund at the end of last year -- funds used to bolster foreign exchange  reserves which, despite the injection, plummeted by 3.2 billion rands (888  million dollars) in the first four months of 1994.
"Aid dents the pride of the nation and promotes a poor work ethic," the  Star article said. "In short, the entire country has to get back to work -- to  work hard, efficiently and assiduously."
A starting point to provide jobs, education and training, the newspaper  said, is to enhance South Africa's economic growth rate to five percent this  year, from a predicted three percent.
The requirements appeared to be in place to achieve this: Relative peace  means foreign investment is ready to enter the conomy, inflation remains in  single digit figures and the end of the recession is in sight.
And black pupils were Friday ordered by four influential education bodies  to go back to school after weeks of disrupted lessons.
In a joint statement the National Education Co-ordinating Committee, the  South African Democratic Teachers Union, the Congress of South African  Students and the South African Students Congress said: "Now that we have  achieved our liberty, the time has come for all learners and educators to  apply themselves with dedication."
