The Nigerian military regime has declared next  Monday a public holiday in a bid to encourage voters to turn out en masse to  elect delegates to a constitutional conference, amid warnings of a boycott.
Meanwhile Tuesday, Nigeria's Anglican archbishop, Abiodun Adetiloye,  called on the regime to hand over power to "democratically elected" president  Moshood Abiola, presumed winner of a vote annulled last year.
Elections at ward level, the first in a two-stage process, had previously  been planned for Saturday, but were pushed forward by two days because the  date clashed with the Moslem feast of Eid-el-Kabir (Abraham and Isaac).
General Sani Abacha, who seized power last November, has pledged to  restore civilian rule and declared that the conference will be a step on the  way, but the pro-democracy opposition has called for a boycott.
A government statement said Monday would be work-free to enable more  Nigerians to participate fully in the election.
The conference is slated to deal with the nation's problems, including  threats to the unity of Nigeria, where leaders of the mainly Ibo southeast  have warned of secession.
In an open letter published by the press, Adetiloye told Abacha: "My dear  general, now is the time for you to bow out honourably. If you cannot see the  hand-writing on the wall and bow out, the end may be inglorious."
Abiola, a Moslem millionaire businessman, is generally held to have won a  presidential election organised by the previous military regime on June 12  last year and adjudged by international observers to have been free and fair.
But then head of state General Ibrahim Babangida annulled the vote,  alleging irregularities, and in August handed over to an unelected civilian  administration which Abacha overthrew. Abacha abolished all the country's  democratic institutions, including the two legal political parties.
Adelitoye, who enjoys considerable prestige in Nigeria, called on Abacha  to "disannul the annulment, install the democratically elected president and  bow out in honour as the hero of the decade. Otherwise ... you would have led  the country into a disastrous revolution from which we may never emerge as one  country."
Of a population of some 88 million, Anglicans were in 1990 estimated to  number 10 million. About 19 million Nigerians are declared Christians and 26  million are Moslems.
The archbishop's letter was published a day after Nigeria's newest  political movement urged the regime to call on Abiola to form a broad-based  government by the end of May.
The National Democratic Coalition, set up last Friday despite a ban on  political gatherings since Abacha took power, said Nigerians should boycott  the constitutional conference planned for June 27.
"The military government is not qualified by its antecedents, disposition  and track record, and has no moral standing whatsoever to organise a proper  sovereign national conference as desired by Nigerians," the movement said in a  communique.
It added: "The oft-repeated claim by successive military administrations  that civilians are to engage in a democratic learning process established and  supervised by the military is fraudulent and insulting."
The Campaign for Democracy, a coalition of some 40 pro-democracy and human  rights groups, is planning three days of protest ceremonies as from June 12 to  mark the first anniversary of the annulment of the poll.
People will be asked to wear black in mourning, and church services and  candlelight processions will be staged in major cities, the campaign's  secretary-general Sylvester Odion-Akhaine said Monday.
