The United States and Japan broke a three-month  deadlock in trade talks Tuesday, but all that has been agreed so far is the  ground rules for resuming negotiations on ways to open Japan's markets.
"I am pleased to announce a resumption of the framework negotiations  between the US and Japan," US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said.
But it took five days of marathon talks here which ended in the early  hours of Tuesday, and five telephone conversations between Kantor and Japanese  Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa to reach agreement to return to the negotiating  table.
And senior US trade officials stressed that the two sides still had a long  way to go in reaching specific agreements on increased US access to particular  sectors of the Japanese economy.
"The agreement should not be overplayed since there are plenty of  negotiations to be concluded," one senior US trade official said.
"There is a lot of hard bargaining left to do," he added.
Kantor said that the Japanese side had reiterated its commitment under the  framework accord to continue to promote demand-led growth and produce a highly  significant decrease in its current account surplus.
Talks on opening Japan's markets and reducing its 60 billion dollar trade  surplus with Washington had collapsed in February in disagreement over how to  measure progress.
The agreement announced Tuesday essentially took the two sides beyond  their acrimonious dispute over the language of measurement and will enable  negotiators to sit down and start talking about "the concrete specifics" of  ways to make progress, a senior Japanese official said.
Washington assured the Japanese under Tuesday's deal not to seek numerical  targets as the way to measure progress, something Japan had resisted as  leading to managed trade and quotas.
But the two sides did agree "to apply both qualitative and quantitative"  measures of progress in what are considered the priority sectors --  automobiles and auto parts, insurance and government procurement, Kantor said.
A key difference between numerical targets and the new formula seems to be  that both sides agreed that a package of criteria for measuring progress would  be agreed in each sector, with Washington pledging not to use numbers as the  sole criterion in any sector.
"This is a firm commitment to a results-oriented agreement," Kantor said.
"It is now clear and mutually understood that the purpose of each agreement  is to achieve concrete and substantial results in the market, increased access  and sales, not merely to change regulations or criteria.
"The framework is clear. All we did is restate the framework and commit  Japan to live up to their obligations under the framework. That's what  happened in these negotiations," Kantor said.
He acknowledged that there was no guarantee the agreement would work, but  stressed that the US side had not traded away any of the weapons in its  existing trade sanctions arsenal.
"If they (the agreements) don't work we have preserved all our trade  laws," Kantor said.
Washington reinstated the Super 301 clause allowing it to impose  unilateral sanctions against countries it considers guilty of unfair trade  practices after the breakdown of framework talks in February, and Washington  has already placed some Japanese products under notice.
But both sides stressed that this week's talks did not discuss sanctions.
A senior Japanese official said he was optimistic that Tuesday's agreement  would mark a successful new start to the trade talks because the tone had  changed in the past six weeks.
The turning point was a two-hour meeting between Kantor and then Japanese  Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata -- who is now prime minister -- on the sidelines  of the GATT signing in Marrakesh last month, the Japanese official said.
That meeting began a process of increased knowledge and understanding  between the two sides which had been further strengthened during the five days  of talks here, he said.
"These discussions are human, personalities are very important," the  Japanese official said.
"You need a common mindset to be able to communicate more freely and more  amicably with each other."
Conversations between President Bill Clinton and Hata, and Kantor and  Kakizawa, paved the way for the talks which ended Tuesday.
Kantor may now meet Kakizawa in Paris in two weeks on the sidelines of an  OECD meeting, while Clinton and Hata are scheduled to meet at the Group of  Seven summit in Naples in July.
Both sides had been anxious to get the talks back on track before the  Naples summit.
