A senior north Yemeni leader on Thursday  repeated a warning to Arab states against recognising the breakaway southern  state, saying such a move would be considered a hostile act against Yemen.
Parliament speaker Abdullah al-Ahmar issued the warning after a four-hour  meeting with United Arab Emirates (UAE) President Sheikh Zayed ibn Sultan  al-Nahayan.
"We do not expect any country, whether Arab or non-Arab, to recognise the  secession and the decision announced by the rebel and traitor, Ali Salim  al-Baidh," Ahmar told reporters.
"All Arab countries are keen about the unity of Yemen and consider it as    a step towards the greater Arab unity. Any such move (recognition) will be  considerd a hostile act against the Yemeni people."
Ahmar said he briefed Sheikh Zayed on the situation in Yemen, where a    civil war has been raging for nearly three weeks between the north and the  south, four years after they merged.
His trip followed the UAE's implicit recognition of the south, with its  official media referring to its leader Baid as president.
"It is a big word," he said when asked about the reference by the official  news agency WAM. "It is really a big word for a traitor and insurgent."
Asked whether there was any possibility of a dialogue between Baid and his  rival, President Ali Abdallah Saleh, he said: "There are no plans at all for  such a meeting. It is not right that a president meets with an insurgent."
"We all want to stop the war but there is a cause. The military solution    if our final option to protect unity, which deserves bloodshed."
He said the "door is open" for a dialogue with supporters of unity within  the ruling southern Yemeni Socialist Party.
"The sole purpose of this war is to protect unity. Those who are against  unity will meet the fate of rebels," he said.
Ahmar, who was flying back to Sanaa late Thursday, said Yemen rejected any  interference by the United Nations security council on the grounds the war is  an internal affair. He also denied reports of foreign involvement in the war.
Asked if northern forces would enter Aden, he only said: "Aden is dear to    our hearts and its people are more unionists than all other Yemeni cities.    But there are some secesionists who have weapons and are imposed on unarmed  civilians there. It is not aceptable."
