Tributes poured in from around the world Thursday  to the late Labour Party leader John Smith, who died earlier from a massive  heart attack aged 55.
In Washington, the US State Department issued a statement regretting "the  untimely death" of the rapier-tongued Scottish barrister and parliamentarian.
"Mr. Smith, throughout his distinguished career in government and in  opposition, left a profound impression on the history of his party and his  country," State Department spokesman Michael McCurry said.
"Secretary (of State Warren) Christopher extends his deepest condolences  to Mrs. Smith and to the Smith children."
In Bonn, the head of the German Social Democratic Party, Rudolf Scharping,  said in a statement he was "very affected by the sudden death of John Smith.
"A good friend of German social democracy has left us too early. He was  very close to achieving his life's goal of making the Labour Party the largest  political force in Britain" and would be "cruelly missed" in Europe, he said.
Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten, a former Conservative Party chairman,  offered his condolences to the Smith family and said his former politcal  opponent was a "good and decent man, widely respected."
In France, French President Francois Mitterrand sent a message of  condolences to Smith's widow Elizabeth and to Labour Party general-secretary  Larry Whitty.
The head of the French Socialist Party Michel Rocard told French radio  Thursday he was "shocked and stunned" by Smith's death:
Rocard had spent Wednesday evening with Smith and his wife after attending  the launch in London of the Labour Party campaign for the European elections.
"He was in great shape last night, and this came as a shock to me," Rocard  said. "John Smith was a fervant European. He fought for a Great Britain that  would have a leading role in the building of Europe."
In Brussels, European Commission President Jacques Delors, a French  socialist, said Smith was "a friend and companion in the struggle for justice  and solidarity."
He would be "sorely missed by all who are striving for progress and, in  particular, by all true Europeans."
The Party of European Socialists also expressed its sorrow. Party  president, Belgian Foreign Minister Willy Claes, said: "Scotland and Britain  have lost a great man, Europe has lost a great ally and the socialist family  has lost a great leader.
"We have lost not just a great friend but a convinced and convincing  European whose ideals and work sprang from deeply-held moral convictions and  sense of justice."
In Lisbon, Portuguese Socialist Party general secretary Antonio Guterres  sent a message of condolences to Smith's widow.
In London, the Socialist International, expressed its "profound sadness"  in a letter signed by president Pierre Mauroy, a former French Socialist  premier, and general secretary Luis Ayale. Smith was the group's deputy  president.
