Grand Prix motor racing plunges into the  unknown here this weekend with drivers and engineers struggling to master cars  drastically changed in the name of greater safety.
Germany's Michael Schumacher in a Benetton-Ford, winner of the first four  races this year, remains in theory the man to beat at the Circuit de Catalunya  near Barcelona.
But at least until the first practice sessions on Friday reveal the  comparative performance of all the cars, the race is wide open.
And Benetton boss Flavio Briatore has accused FIA president Max Mosley of  making the sport even more dangerous.
"Now that the teams have had an opportunity to test and evalutate the  Barcelona regulation changes, it has become apparent that there are serious  problems," Briatore said.
"The stability and consistency of the car has worsened ... the likelihood  of an accident has been increased."
And he said the FIA would be responsible for any further tragedy.
"We will be advising our drivers that the parts they will racing may not  have been subjected to proper analysis and testing," he said.
"It will be their and the FIA's responsibility that they race," he said.
Mosley took the attack calmly.
"All the teams have been informed that if they aren't confident of running  their cars with the new measures, they can miss the race without being  penalised," he replied.
Mosley ordered the changes after the deaths of Brazilian Ayrton Senna and  Roland Ratzenberger of Austria at Imola, which were followed by the crash at  Monaco which left another Austrian, Karl Wendlinger, in a coma.
McLaren boss Ron Dennis also voiced his fears about the hasty changes.
"I am not sure that what some of the teams will have at the Grand Prix is  a safer racing car," he said.
The latest serious accident, to Portuguese driver Pedro Lamy in testing at  Silverstone in Britain this week, occurred on a straight and did not appear to  have been caused by the changes.
The teams have been working frantically since Monaco to adapt their cars  to less efficient front wings and underbodies.
