World powers took few great risks in the past year,  gambling little, achieving less, and seemingly suffering from a serious attack  of "strategic arthritis," according to a global study released here Monday.
"This affliction appeared to affect all but the world's most dangerous and  irresponsible powers," said the International Institute for Strategic Studies  (IISS) in its Strategic Survey 1993-1994.
"Few great risks were taken, or enduring commitments made, to address  large strategic issues," said the report.
"Sometimes the malady was alleviated by a brief bout of shock therapy: a  mortar shell in a Sarajevo marketplace provoked dynamism in the form of a NATO  (North Atlantic Treaty Organisation) ultimatum.
"A massacre in Hebron ... refocused minds and led to a renewed push to  implement the Israeli-PLO (Palestine Liberation Organisation) peace, itself an  exception to the general trend of strategic immobilism," said the IISS.
A generalized "reluctance to move," said the IISS, was partly explained on  by the enormity of current international problems, and partly by pressing  domestic issues, particularly in the United States.
There also appeared to be a reassessment, it said, of the belief "that the  international community, through UN peacekeeping and humanitarian efforts,  could cope with the breakdown of local peace and order.
"The difficulties of trying to be peacekeepers where there was no peace to  keep, as in Somalia and Bosnia, dampened much of the earlier enthusiasm," said  the IISS.
The report is critical of the European Union, saying it "continues to  exhaust its energies on how to organize itself, rather than addressing what it  is organizing for."
The EU demonstrated it was "a long way from being a union of like-minded  countries developing common interests...(It) must stop examining its navel and  turn its thoughts to the world outside."
The IISS was equally critical of the United States, which "even more than  usual does not seem to be following a steady compass."
President Bill Clinton"has been blowing a very uncertain foreign policy  trumpet," it said.
"If the world has learned once again that very little will move without the  active participation of the major powers, it does not necessarily follow that  they should be welcomed back to the lead without trepidation," said the report.
The IISS cautioned the international community "to have doubts concerning  a reinvigorated Russian role.
"Russian diplomatic intervention in Bosnia on the side of the Serbs gave a  helpful push to the efforts to lift the siege of Sarajevo" but gave the  Russians "a degree of influence in the former Yugoslavia that they have not  had since Stalin lost control there in 1948."
Since the December elections in Russia, said the IISS, "reformers have  either been dispersed or seem to have lost heart, leaving the field to an  ill-assorted collection of fervent nationalists, anti-free marketeers, and  authoritarian-minded ex-communists, all dedicated to preventing Russia from  becoming a more western-oriented nation."
The IISS said NATO had erred badly when, in turning down membership to  Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, it left the impression that Russia had  influenced the decision.
"By leaving the wrong impression the West encouraged military and  nationalist voices in Moscow to believe that on these and other matters they  hold a veto over western decisions," said the report.
That, it said, was "a mistake that should not be made again."
(attention embargo)
