Benetton boss Flavio Briatore launched a stunning  attack on Formula One boss Max Moseley on Wednesday, arguing his proposed new  safety measures would make the sport even more dangerous.
Briatore accused Moseley, president of the sport's governing body  International Automobile Federation (FIA), of failing to understand basic  safety principles and refusing to listen to advice.
And he went on to challenge Moseley directly, declaring he and his  advisers would be held directly responsible if drivers were forced to race  cars at the Spanish Grand Prix at the weekend which had not been properly  tested.
Moseley ordered the car changes after the deaths of Brazilian Ayrton Senna  and Roland Ratzenberger of Austria at Imola, which were followed by the crash  at Monaco which left another Austrian, Karl Wendlinger, in a coma.
Briatore said: "Now that the teams have had an opportunity to test and  evalutate the Barcelona regulation changes, it has become apparent that there  are serious problems.
"The stability and consistency of the car has worsened ... the likelihood  of an accident has been increased." He also argued teams were "experiencing  structural failures" caused by the new regulations.
Race teams and drivers had accused FIA of not consulting them over the  phased safety changes, which include reducing car aerodynamics efficiency by  25 percent and cutting back engine power.
But Briatore scathingly attacked Moseley's understanding of the technical  problems, arguing: "Your decision on May 13 in Monte Carlo to impose a 25kg  weight limit increase on the cars as from Montreal is an example of the lack  of understanding of the first principles."
The Benetton manager said heavier cars would lose speed more slowly if  drivers lost control and would hit barriers harder. He also argued rushed  changes to drivers' head protection could "increase the chance of injury."
He concluded: "Despite these concerns you continue to insist on these  ill-conceived measures.
"It is our opinion that the ability of yourself and your advisers to judge  technical and safety issues in Formula One must be questioned."
Referring to the race in Barcelona, he argued: "Should we be forced to  race to the new regulations, then we will be advising our drivers that the  parts they will racing may not have been subjected to proper analysis and  testing.
"It will be their and the FIA's responsibility that they race."
The safety crisis in the sport took a new turn on Tuesday when Lotus  driver Pedro Lamy was flown to hospital with two broken legs and arm injuries  after a 200kmh (124mph) crash at Silverstone. He had been testing a car fitted  with FIA's new safety features.
