Jennifer Capriati checked herself into  a drug rehabilitation clinic, her agents confirmed Thursday, amid lurid  reports that the teenage tennis star used heroin and crack cocaine during a  two-day drug party.
A spokeswoman for International Management Group said Capriati had  voluntarily entered the rehabilitation center at Mount Sinai Medical Center in  Miami Beach on Wednesday, two days after she was arrested for possession of  marijuana.
Two other people with her were arrested for possession of heroin and crack  cocaine.
Capriati's agent, Barbara Perry, told USA Today that her parents visited  her Wednesday and "everything's fine, she's in good spirits."
Capriati, 18, was arrested Monday in a motel room in Coral Gables,  Florida, on a misdemeanor drug possession charge. She had checked into the  room Saturday, the motel manager said.
Capriati's lawyer and Perry said they planned to release statements on  Thursday, but plans for a press conference were abandoned.
None of Capriati's handlers directly addressed reports that she had used  crack cocaine, heroin and painkillers.
Police said they had no evidence Capriati used cocaine or heroin.
Tom Wineland, 20, who was arrested with Capriati on a charge of possession  of suspected crack cocaine, was quoted in several London tabloid newspapers as  saying Capriati used crack while he was with her.
Timineet Branagan, a 17-year-old runaway girl arrested in the incident,  was charged with possession of heroin.
Wineland's lawyer, Edward Abramson, said he had been told that "Capriati  rented the room, used her credit card to pay for the intoxicants. There was a  party" and Capriati was "whacked out on heroin."
Abramson refused to confirm that Wineland provided his information.
"I don't want to prejudice the court," Abramson said. "You pretty well  know my source, and you pretty well know what's going on."
Abramson did confirm his client spoke with a reporter from Britain.
Capriati's arrest cost her one of her oldest and most lucrative  endorsement contracts.
Ivan Nonni, promotions chief for Italian sportswear company Diadora, said:  "We invested heavily in Jennifer and wanted to invest more, but a company like  ours that holds sport so important, cannot possibly be linked in any way with  drugs."
Racket manufacturer Prince has reportedly cancelled its contract with  Capriati as well.
Both companies had signed multimillion-dollar contracts with Capriati  before she turned pro at age 13 in 1990.
The incident has fueled the debate over the appropriate minimum age for  tennis professionals.
"It's a perfect example of little girls that were put out there way too  early," said John McEnroe.
Capriati turned pro at 13 years and 11 months in 1990. That year she  became the youngest Grand Slam semi-finalist in history at the French Open.
That same year she became the youngest player to win a match at Wimbledon,  where she reached the fourth round. She was in the world top 10 before she  turned 15, and by 1991 she was on the Forbes Magazine list of 40 highest paid  athletes in the world.
In 1992 she won the Olympic gold medal, but she already appeared to be  struggling to cope with her early fame.
Capriati has not played tournament tennis since losing in the first round  of the US Open last year. She moved out of her parents home in Tampa, Florida,  in March.
Former tennis player Carling Bassett Seguso, who also lives in Boca Raton,  said a supermarket manager had told her he recently refused to cash a check  for Capriati, who came into the store smoking a cigarette and looking bloated.
"The manager came up to me and said 'I never would have recognized her,'"  Bassett Seguso said.
