South Africa's new 90-member Senate, which will  assist in writing the final constitution, met for the first time Friday,  electing as its president the National Party's former justice and defense  minister, Kobie Coetsee.
Coetsee ran unopposed and after they were sworn in, the senators -- 10  from each of the country's nine new provinces -- elected African National  Congress stalwart Govan Mbeki as deputy president of the upper house.
Mbeki, 84, father of President Nelson Mandela's first deputy Thabo Mbeki,  was one of the defendents at the Rivonia Trial that saw Mandela and seven  other ANC leaders sentenced to life terms in 1964 on charges of sabotage and  conspiracy to overthrow the government.
Coetsee said it was a "great privilege" to head the Senate, and he called  for a "spirit of tolerance and good humour" during the coming debates.
The Senate will be able to initiate legislation and will have to approve  bills sent to it by the 400-members lower house, the National Assembly.
The Senate will also have the final say over any changes to the powers and  boundaries of the nine provinces.
The only parliamentary body still to be officially formed after the  country's first democratic election last month is the Constitutional Assembly  -- comprising both the Senate and the National Assembly -- that will give the  country's new constitution its final shape over the next five years.
The joint body will hold its first meeting on Tuesday, parliamentary  sources said, and elect a chairman, widely expected to be Pravin Gordhan, 44,  a chief ANC negotiator at the multiparty negociations that drew up South  Africa's interim constitution.
The Senate, whose members are chosen by the nine provincial assemblies,  comprises 60 ANC members, 17 from the National Party, five each from the Zulu  nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party and the white right-wing Freedom Front and  three from the liberal Democratic Party.
The Constitutional Assembly meeting will be held before Mandela opens the  lower house's working session with a state of the country address on Tuesday  afternoon, to be followed by a four-day debate.
The assembly will then recess until June 20, when it will reconvene to pass  the national budget by July 10, then recess again to reopen in August,  parliamentary sources said.
South Africa's previous Senate was abolished in January 1981, ahead of the  introduction of the tricameral parliament in 1983, in which the white House of  Assembly dominated two junior chambers for coloureds (mixed-race) and Indians.
Hendrik Verwoerd, the architect of the racial policy of apartheid, was a  Senator from 1948 to 1958 before he became prime minister.
