Fierce artillery battles raged Wednesday between  Rwandan rebels and the army in Kigali, killing and wounding civilians and  delaying talks between a special UN envoy and the government to plan the  return of UN troops.
One shell slammed into a Red Cross compound close to a field hospital in  the Rwandan capital, killing two Rwandan Red Cross workers and seriously  wounding five others, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)  stated.
An ICRC spokesman in Geneva, Jean-Luc Thevoz, said the shell had not  directly hit the hospital as first thought, but destroyed another building in  the compound.
Thevoz added that the ICRC did not envisage cutting back on personnel in  Kigali, where it opened the field hospital last month to ease the strain on  the overcrowded main hospital, where 30 patients were killed when it was  shelled last week.
Another shell injured three people at the Amahoro stadium, where thousands  of civilians have sought refuge from the war, an UN spokesman reached by  telephone from Nairobi said.
A UN military spokesman earlier announced the suspension of its two daily  relief flights to Kigali after a bullet fired on Tuesday left a hole in one of  the wings of the Canadian Hercules 1-300 being used in the operation.
He said the incident was not discovered until the plane was inspected on  its arrival back in Nairobi. The bullet must have been fired either when the  plane was landing at Kigali or taking off, he added.
In spite of the fighting, UN special envoy Iqbal Riza was able to leave  Kigali at the end of the morning to travel to Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25  miles) to the southwest, for talks with the self-proclaimed interim government.
The rump administration installed itself in Gitamara when renewed war  broke out, accompanied by ethnic slaughter, after president Juvenal  Habyarimama was killed in a suspected rocket attack on his plane on April 6.
Riza is seeking to obtain the approval of the warring parties for the  deployment of 5,500 UN peacekeepers to try and end the massacre of civilians  and help provide relief supplies.
The troops would have no mandate, however, to intervene in the fighting  between the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and the army. Riza has already  seen representatives of both sides this week.
Up to half a million people have been hacked, clubbed, burned or shot to  death in six weeks of frenzied ethnic slaughter in Rwanda, much of it blamed  on beer-swilling militiamen only loosely controlled by the government.
Most of the victims were minority Tutsis and Hutus suspected of supporting  the mainly Tutsi RPF.
Another 500,000 Rwandans, Hutus and Tutsis, have sought refuge in  neighbouring countries.
The UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda, initially deployed to help implement  a peace accord reached between the rebels and the government last year, was  cut back from 2,500 to just 400 personnel when the violence broke out anew.
