Russian President Boris Yeltsin  announced plans Friday with top German investors for new transport links by  road and by rail between Moscow and Berlin.
Yeltsin, who met with 14 German business leaders on the final day of his  visit to Germany, said businessmen had agreed to help finance the construction  of a new high-speed highway between the two cities as well as a railway system.
"We agreed on building a Moscow-Berlin Autobahn", Yeltsin told reporters,  using the German term to describe the highway.
Earlier in Bonn, Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel told Yeltsin that a treaty  of association between Russia and the European Union would be at the top of  Germany's agenda during its forthcoming presidency of the EU.
German Transport Minister Matthias Wissman confirmed here that the road  and rail projects were in the works but stressed that large private  investments would be needed to finance such a venture.
Wissman said, quoting Yeltsin, that Chancellor Helmut Kohl had agreed to  help find financial backing from European partners.
Industry leader Eberhard von Koerber confirmed the German government was  committed to building the vital links that would boost trade between Russia  and western Europe.
He also said that Yeltsin had pressed German representatives to invest in  defence conversion projects, stating that they should not let their Japanese  and American counterparts get the upper hand in that choice area of Russia's  economy.
Russia's defence plants and factories are considered to be the most  efficient in that country.
There were also complaints from German business over continued high  inflation in Russia and one major industry chief pointed the guilty finger at  the Russian central bank.
"The central bank is a money printing machine" said Otto Wolff von  Amerongen, leader of an influential German commission overseeing investment in  eastern Europe.
Amerongen told Yeltsin that German businessmen wanted to invest in Russia  but that certain conditions had to be met.
He asserted that ever-changing taxation laws needed to be fine-tuned and  that inflation, currently at a monthly rate of nine percent, needed to be  brought down.
Yeltsin spent the last day of his visit to Germany in Stuttgart, the  electronics and high technology hub of Germany.
The Russian leader visited the Alcatel-SEL communications plant and spoke  to his wife Naina who was visiting a nearby historic fortress from a computer  terminal equipped with a video screen.
"We don't have anything like this in Russia", he commented.
Alcatel-SEL has developed business ties in Saint Petersburg since 1992 and  has recently signed a contract with an electronics firm in the Ural region of  Ufa.
Yeltsin left for Moscow later in the afternoon.
Earlier in Bonn the Kinkel said in a statement that he had pledged Bonn  would make the treaty "one of the top priorities of the German presidency of  the Union."
Bonn takes over the six-month rotating presidency from Greece on July 1.
Kinkel expressed hopes Russia would soon play an active role in European  security policy by joining the NATO-proposed Partnership for Peace programme.
"President Yelstin stressed Russia had no difficulty (with the accord) and  would sign soon," the statement said. "But Russia wishes to set out in a  protocol the specific content of the cooperation between NATO and Russia."
German government spokesman Dieter Vogel said talks with Yeltsin had  "provided an opportunity to move forward on this question."
Kinkel, echoing an earlier pledge by Chancellor Helmut Kohl, also  reassured Yeltsin that Germany would back Russian efforts to obtain full  membership of the GATT world trade accord and of the G7 group of most  industrialised countries.
The proposed partnership offers former Warsaw Pact countries closer  military cooperation with the alliance but stops short of giving them full  membership.
