Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres spoke of  "room for manoeuvre" in the search for peace with Syria after talks with US  Secretary of State Warren Christopher on Tuesday.
"There are still problems in the peace process with Syria," Peres said,  "but we feel that because of the secretary's visit there is room for  manoeuvre."
"We know there is a lot of work to be done," he said, but did not  elaborate.
Christopher repeated that both parties had been seriously engaged in the  peace quest since he carried Israel's proposal for a phased withdrawal linked  to security arrangements to Damascus two weeks ago.
"We have many things we are working together on," he said before going  into talks with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin.
But Israel's ambassador to Washington, Itamar Rabinovitch, told state  radio: "Perhaps the Syrians are beginning to feel that there is a notion of  time which does not necessarily work in their favour.
"There are signs they want to make progress but there are no manifest  expressions of the way in which they intend to do so."
He noted that the official Syrian press had shown "a greater willingness  for progress."
Rabinovich urged a fresh round of bilateral peace talks.
"The US role is very important but the negotiations cannot take the place  through the intermediary of the secretary. We have to renew direct dialogue,  not only renew but improve it."
The bilateral negotiations in Washington have not been held since before  the February 25 Hebron mosque massacre as Israel and Syria stumbled over  preconditions.
Israel demands a prior Syrian commitment for total peace before  negotiating the size of any withdrawal from the Golan Heights. Syria demands  that Israel first commit itself to quit all the strategic plateau before  talking about the type of peace.
Christopher met Rabin in Jerusalem on Monday night after arriving from  Syria with reactions to Israel's peace package.
The secretary met President Hafez al-Assad and Foreign Minister Faruq  al-Shara in Damascus on Sunday and Monday.
