A South African soldier was shot dead in a  black township near here Sunday by gunmen who accused him of supporting  President Nelson Mandela's African National Congress (ANC), a National Defence  Force spokesman said.
The incident followed the massacre of 12 people Friday night in  neighbouring Tokoza township, shattering three weeks of peace that held in the  wake of South Africa's first democratic election on April 26-29 which swept  the ANC to victory.
Christo Visser, a spokesman for the South African National Defence Force  (SANDF), said the 20-year-old army rifleman and a colleague, dressed in  regulation off-duty black and yellow track suits were confronted by four men  as they walked to a railway station in the black township of Katlehong.
"The men demanded to know why they were wearing ANC colours and asked them  what they were doing in the area," Visser said.
One man managed to escape and alert an SANDF patrol, but they were too  late to save the rifleman, who was found dead with a bullet in the head  outside a migrant worker hostel.
On Friday night, 12 people were massacred in Tokoza by gunmen who lined 10  of them against a wall and mowed them down execution-style. The victims, aged  between 13 and 25-years-old, were discovered Saturday.
Last year at least 1,600 people were killed in the townships east of here,  which have borne the brunt of political violence that has claimed 10,000 lives  countrywide in the four years since former president Frederik de Klerk  unbanned the ANC.
Most of the township violence has pitted hostel dwellers, mainly  supporters of the Zulu nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), against  ANC-supporting township residents.
The death toll has declined steadily since the beginning of the year and  police told of experiencing their quietest time in years over the all-race  election which resulted in Mandela's inauguration Tuesday as the country's  first black president.
"Everything has flared up again here since we discovered those 12 bodies  on Saturday," said Visser, who spoke of a "hectic" weekend in the eastern  townships.
In another incident Sunday afternoon, troops threw a cordon around three  Tokoza hostels, suspecting that commuters in a taxi that had driven past the  hostels had been taken hostage, Visser said.
The situation threatened to degenerate when ANC supporters marched on the  hostels intent on "tearing them down," Visser said, adding that reinforcement  had been sent in and that the SANDF was poised to search the buildings.
On Saturday IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi -- now home affairs minister  in Mandela's government -- urged his supporters to work for reconciliation and  peace with their political foes.
"Go out and break down the barriers that divide you from you political  opponents," he said at a rally to celebrate his party's election victory in  his KwaZulu-Natal province power base.
Barely hours before he spoke Saturday, police and soldiers raided three  migrant worker hostels in Vosloorus, near Tokoza and Katlehong, and seized a  cache of arms, including 13 AK-47 automatic rifless, three handgrenades and  more than 1,000 rounds of ammunition.
Although the ANC won a resounding victory in the national poll, it lost to  the IFP in KwaZulu-Natal.
The IFP came third nationally, after the former ruling National Party, and  together the three parties make up the government of national unity that will  govern for five years until fresh elections.
