President Francois Mitterrand on Wednesday insisted  he was opposed to lifting the arms embargo on ex-Yugoslavia, as French  pressure groups backing the Sarajevo government lobbied for an end to the  sanctions.
Mitterrand, who spoke at a cabinet meeting, warned that proposals to  exempt the Moslem-led government from the embargo could trigger an escalation  of the Bosnian conflict that could "go well beyond the Balkans," his spokesman  Jean Musitelli said.
With France on Wednesday playing host to talks attended by diplomats from  the European Union, Russia and the United States and by the warring Bosnian  parties, Mitterrand said the "sole alternative to negotiation is war."
In an interview with five European papers Wednesday, the French president  added that the future of France's UN troop presence in Bosnia would depend on  the outcome of an international conference.
"The question (of a pullout of UN troops) would be posed if the conference  where the Americans, the European Union and the Russians participate is  delayed.
"The French proposal is aimed at arranging talks among the factions and  the three great powers, which have so far expressed themselves separately."
The French president called for an immediate conference after the Serbs  pulled most of their troops out of the eastern Bosnian town of Gorazde, under  NATO pressure, at the end of April.
Mitterrand's Socialist ally, Michel Rocard, who heads the French Socialist  Party and the Socialist list for the June 12 European elections, has publicly  differed with the president, speaking out in favor of lifting the embargo  against the mainly Moslem Bosnian army.
A group of French intellectuals has also threatened to present their own  list at the European elections if the mainstream lists do not call for  allowing arms deliveries to Bosnian government troops.
Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic met with Rocard and other officials in  Paris Monday to plead this cause.
Rocard, a presidential hopeful, Wednesday urged that "negotiations still  be given a chance." But he said "elementary morality would imply that at least  if we cannot protect the Bosnians, we let them protect themselves."
The talks with the international contact group on Bosnia-Hercegovina took  place Wednesday in Talloires, a town in the French Alps just across the border  from Geneva.
The meeting aimed to reach an agreement on the future carve-up of  Bosnia-Hercegovina alongside a general four-month ceasefire, as a prelude to a  permanent peace.
Earlier Wednesday, Defense Minister Francois Leotard confirmed that the  French military contingent in former Yugoslavia would be dropped by 2,500 men  by the end of the year.
France, which forms the backbone of the UN force in ex-Yugoslavia, now has  6,800 troops there.
By the end of 1994, "we are going to drop the volume of our forces in  Bosnia and we are going to regroup them around Sarajevo," Leotard said on  French radio.
France, and later Britain, have both warned they would pull their forces  out of Bosnia if there is no breakthrough in the peace process. Britain has  about 3,000 troops in former Yugoslavia.
