Europe faces a stark choice between pulling  together or falling prey to xenophobia, European Commission President Jacques  Delors warned in the run-up to European elections, the Independent said  Thursday.
"The choice is simple: between the partisans of a European political  system which undertakes to share sovereignty where there is a common interest,  and a vast zone with no arms and no backbone. That is the choice we have to  explain to our citizens," he said.
And by the time governments meet at an intergovernmental conference in  1996 to consider fundamental reforms to the European Union's treaty, the EU  must be bolstered with "a backbone and arms" -- a strong set of central  institutions and a common defence policy, he said.
By then, the EU must also be able to cope with a growth from 12 to 20 or  25 members, he added.
Attacking advocates of a return to the Europe of nation states, he  acknowledged: "The hardest thing is to convince European citizens that even  the most powerful nation is no longer able to act alone."
But he stressed: "We should all be worried that the vigour of democracy is  everywhere under threat, that Europe is showing a tendency to self-absorption  and is ignoring the reality that the bad shepherds have come back, and that  populism is on the increase -- a populism that rejects anything different,  anyone with a different coloured skin, or different race or religion. This is  the real danger and unspoken risk that threatens to pollute democracy."
Delors voiced concern over a tendency to ignore EU rules agreed by all and  solve complicated problems unilaterally.
A recent clash over landing rights for British Airways at Orly airport  near Paris and a threatened German ban on British beef both showed the danger  of a fragmentation of the EU. "I have to fight against this drift, to defend  Union rules."
He also has difficulty instilling what he calls "family spirit" in a  Europe debilitated by recession and unemployment.
Governments were dragging their heels in applying remedies approved last  December at the Brussels summit, such as market deregulation and new  infrastructure, he said.
Looking back on the profound changes in the structure of Europe since the  revolutions of 1989, when "suddenly Europe was not cut in two", he said he  regretted his warning Europe would pay a high price for German unification  went unheeded.
"I am not anti-German, but we could have been better prepared or the  economic shock of absorbing the East so quickly," he said.
Editorial comment in the Independent states Delors will be a hard act to  follow when he steps down at the end of the year.
The paper speaks of his "rare ability to combine concepts, practical  politics and passion," adding: "the former French socialist finance minister  has shown himself to be one of the key figures in the history of the European  Community."
"He has enormously enhanced the status of his job and even succeeded in  capturing the imagination of the British public."
It concludes: "On balance, and for all the complexity of his character,  his strengths have far outweighed his weaknesses. It would be a grave error to  appoint as his successor his antithesis: a mere fixer with no real sense of  purpose."
