The cradle of two glorious Persian dynasties  and with a culture dating back to the fifth century B.C., the southern Fars  province and its capital Shiraz hope to attrack foreign tourists and hard  currency after a 15-year hiatus.
The authorities have recently stepped up efforts to renovate the  province's historical sites and architectural treasures after a long period of  austerity imposed after the 1979 Islamic revolution and the ensuing war with  Iraq.
Such efforts are particularly visible in Shiraz, where work is underway to  improve the civil and religious monuments near the grand bazaar, which is  itself among the most spectacular in Iran.
A few steps away from the bazaar is the citadel of Karim-Khan Zand, an  18th century king who made Shiraz a capital, for the third time in Persian  history. The site, currently under repair, was used as a prison for half a  century up until a few years ago.
These projects have helped to partly restore the original look of the  city, which at one time was proud of its beautiful gardens, but which were  destroyed by urbanisation and pollution.
Among other projects at hand, the Shiraz municipality is considering  converting some 50 hectars of developments around the bazaar into a park,  keeping only the buildings which are architecturally important.
Some 60 kilometers (40 miles) away, on the outskirts of Shiraz are the  famous Persepolis ruins which are also undergoing repairs after 15 years of   neglect. The site was built some 2,500 years ago as a religious center.
Measures have been taken to protect the most exquisite engravings on walls  and to set up a new light and sound spectacle.
The authorities are also seeking to vacate and renovate a 200-room hotel  near the ruins, which was taken over by the army after the revolution.
The municipality is building, with the help of foreign investors --  notably from Qatar and Kuwait --, five major hotels with 300 rooms each to  accommodate tourists coming to Shiraz. The city of 1.2 million currently only  has one first-class hotel.
The governor of Fars, Mohammad Ali Naghi-Jahromi, told a group of visiting  foreign journalists he hoped tourism "becomes a main source of hard currency  for the province within five years."
Before the revolution, Shiraz attracted some 500,000 foreigners a year,  while only 20,000 foreign tourists visited the city in 1993, according to  estimates by local officials.
The drop has been attributed largely to the government's strict visa  policies, poor accommodation and transportation facilities as well as a lack  of desire to attract tourists in spite of the country's desperate need of hard  currencies.
Jahromi said however he expected the new efforts to soon pay off. This is  to enable the province to earn about 500 million dollars from tourism within  the next five years.
In spite of the new willingness to develop the tourism industry, a great  deal of resistance lingers among the conservative and religious circles, who  are opposed to the Western concept of tourism.
Several officials and clergymen have warned against the risks of Western  cultural influences if a large number of tourists were admitted.
"We want to have as many tourists as possible, but we are determined to  admit only those who are willing to respect our culture and law," Jahromi said.
As a symbol of the cultural tourism Iran wants to develop, the authorities  arranged for the journalists to visit the mausoleums of two great Iranian  poets in Shiraz.
Hafez and Saadi, among the most revered literary figures in the Islamic  republic, lived and died in Shiraz about six centuries ago.
Though the sites' architecture does not command a great deal of interest,  one is amazed to see the large number of admirers -- of every age group and  status -- who visit the tombs daily with a passion equal to that reserved for  saints.
