Thousands of terrified Rwandans are scrambling out  of Kigali before an expected rebel takeover which they fear will usher in  reprisals for the massacres of Tutsis, relief officials said Tuesday.
A special UN envoy was meanwhile expected to fly into Kigali from the  Ugandan capital Kampala later Tuesday after a dispute with the mainly Tutsi  rebels about the planned deployment of 5,500 peacekeepers to staunch ethnic  bloodletting in which up to half a million people have been butchered.
The envoy, Iqbal Riza of Pakistan, postponed his trip to Kigali on Monday  because he said neither rebels nor government forces could guarantee his  security.
The army has since promised not to shoot down Riza's plane, and rebels who  captured Kigali airport Sunday have also pledged to hold their fire, UN  spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
The United Nations has asked both sides to extend a shaky two-day truce  that began Monday when Riza arrived in northern Rwanda until Wednesday at 6:00  p.m. (1600 GMT). They were to give their answers later Tuesday, Kabia said.
Riza held "inconclusive" discussions about the return of UN troops to  Rwanda with leaders of the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) in their  northern stronghold of Mulindi on Monday, Kabia said.
"There was a disagreement over the size of the force," Kabia said.
The rebels want the United Nations to limit the number of troops in Rwanda  to 2,500 because they fear that 5,500 men could intervene in fighting between  the RPF and the army, he said.
But the UN humanitarian mission excludes such intervention.
The new force, which UN military officials hope will be in place within a  month, is to escort relief convoys to hungry civilians and stem the massacres  of civilians by bloodthirsty Hutu militias.
As many as 500,000 people, mostly minority Tutsis and Hutu opposition  supporters, have been hacked or clubbed to death by extremist Hutu militias  formed by president Juvenal Habyarimana in the year before his death in a  mysterious April 6 plane crash, relief officials said.
After Habyarimana was killed, the militias launched a killing spree  throughout Rwanda.
