India opened up basic telephone services to   foreign and domestic private companies in a long-awaited telecom policy  unveiled Friday, taking the first step towards private phone networks.
The policy is aimed at meeting an eight-billion-dollar shortfall in the   nearly 14 billion dollars required to modernise India's antiquated telephone  system and provide a phone on demand to its citizens by the year 1996.
Ordinary Indians with no political influence and no money to pay bribes to  jump the queue now have to wait up to five years for a connection, which may  not even work when they get it.
Three million people are on the waiting list, which is growing by 15-20  percent every year, but the list is expected to vanish when foreign companies  bring their telecom dollars to provide phone services.
Communications Minister Sukh Ram told parliament the policy also was aimed  at bringing to India all sophisticated phone services available in advanced  countries and build a world-class network.
The long-awaited policy document, whose theme is "telecommunications for  all," was released on the eve of Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao's departure  for a visit to the United States.
Major US telecom firms such as US West and Motorola have been eagerly  waiting to enter the huge Indian market of nearly 900 million people, where  basic telephone services have been a government monopoly.
Hardware manufacture and value-added services, such as radio paging and  mobile cellular phone systems, have been thrown open.
The policy document said currently there was not even one telephone for  every 100 Indians against a world average of 10 for 100.
India's telephone distribution average per 100 persons is 0.8, compared to  1.7 in China, two in Pakistan and 13 in Malaysia. Tens of thousands of  villages have no phone connections.
By 2000, demand for telephones is expected to grow to 20 million in the  country, seen as the largest telecom market after China.
But the task of serving all Indians on the waiting list for a telephone  connection and meeting future demand is "beyond the capacity of government  funding and internal generation of resources," the policy document said.
It said the aim was to ensure that all the more than 500,000 villages in  India had a phone connection and that a public call office was available for  every 500 Indians by 1997.
Private phone companies would have to strike a balance between covering  urban and rural areas, the document said.
A company's track record, its technology, the commercial terms it would  offer and the ability to give the "best quality of service to the consumer at  the most competitive cost" would determine who gets New Delhi's approval.
Private investment would be supplemented by government efforts to raise  additional money to fund a rapid expansion and modernisation of the  telecommunications network.
The telecom policy also envisages allowing private companies to install an  exchange, operate it for a specific period and transfer it to the Department  of Telecommunications after recovering investment.
Foreign investors invited to put money in India under a 1991  liberalisation programme have often cited inadequate telecommunications as an  infrastructural bottleneck restricting their entry.
Local manufacturers of telephone instruments meanwhile complain that they  are burdened with large inventories because of the government's failure to  match the demand for connections.
Privatisation has been held up so far mainly because of political and  bureaucratic resistance, while the cash-strapped state phone network has found  it hard to raise money from the market to bankroll expansion plans.
Indians have patiently tolerated the shoddy government-run phone network  in the absence of an alternative. In Calcutta, a citizens' organisation has  held ritualistic burials for "dead" telephones that never work.
