Nigerians Monday largely ignored elections to a  constitutional conference that the military regime calls a step toward  restoring democracy, reports said.
State-run radio said turnout in two of the country's most important  regions, the southwest and the east, was very light. It was heavy in the  north, however, the radio said.
Still, the chairman of the commission overseeing the voting, Bernard Mba,  said he was satisfied with the election and that no incidents were reported.
Pro-democracy campaigners had called on Nigerians to boycott the election,  dismissing it as a charade and saying the military had no intention of  surrendering power.
At several polling stations in Lagos, nobody had registered in the first  three hours after the polls opened, while at others visited by AFP, fewer than  a score of names were recorded.
Voting proper began several hours later, and polling stations closed at  1500 GMT.
The aim was to choose electoral colleges in each of Nigeria's 30 states  and the federal capital territory Abuja. These colleges in turn will vote  Saturday to choose 273 delegates to the conference, due to begin June 27.
Another 96 delegates are to be chosen by the military.
Pro-democracy movements warned Nigeria's latest military ruler, General  Sani Abacha, that he would face mass protests unless by May 31 he asked the  presumed winner of elections held June 12 of last year to form a government.
That election was annulled by the general in power at the time, Ibrahim  Babangida, alleging irregularities. International election observers said the  vote was free and fair.
The election was widely considered to have been won by millionaire  businessman Moshood Abiola.
Abacha seized power last November after a brief period in which Nigeria  was ruled by an unelected civilian government appointed by Babangida.
Abacha brought some of Abiola's aides into his team and pledged an end to  military rule, but abolished all of Nigeria's democratic institutions.
His junta says the conference is a step toward surrendering power.
Over the weekend his military junta won the support of traditional chiefs  in the ethnic Yoruba heartland in the southwest, Abiola's home region.
The Yoruba rulers said they would back the constitutional conference on  condition that the annulment of last year's election be on the agenda.
Sources reached by AFP in major cities in other parts of the country  reported widespread apathy about the poll.
Apart from the boycott call, however, critics spoke of slipshod  organisation of the poll, with Lagos voters not even knowing until the early  hours of Monday who the candidates were. There was no election campaign.
Lagos walls were adorned with posters issued by the recently formed  National Democratic Coalition movement, which read: "Abacha must go now. Shun  the constitutional conference. A popular national government is the answer."
