Rescuers resumed efforts Sunday to  salvage containers lost overboard in the English Channel when a cargo ship  transporting dangerous acids collided with another vessel, maritime  authorities said.
A Dunkirk tug supported by French and British aircraft was due Sunday to  try to salvage eight containers known to be lost from the Taiwan-registered  Ming Fortune, when it collided Saturday in thick fog with the refrigeration  vessel Ariake, the French maritime emergency centre here said.
The 210-metre (230-yard) long Ming Fortune was transporting 1,200  containers, including consignments of toxic materials such as acids and  hydrocarbons, as well as hi-fi equipment, when the collision occurred.
With the Taiwanese vessel continuing to sink Sunday after being badly  holed in the accident, eight containers have so far been spotted floating on  the water.
But a centre officer stressed it was unclear whether any of the floating  containers held toxic products.
"There is no indication that these are metal drums containing dangerous  substances, which would usually be loaded at the bottom of a ship's hold," the  officer said.
Officials said least two other tugs were en route Sunday morning for the  site of the collision in French territorial waters around 30 nautical miles  north of Dieppe-Fecamp.
They added that helicopters could join the search for the containers if   visibility, currently down to around 1,000 metres (yards), improved.
On Saturday helicopters winched crew members of the Ming Fortune to  safety, but its captain and a senior officer were still on board the vessel  Sunday to try to save the ship, and guide French and British salvage and  assessment teams due to arrive at the scene.
British coastguards earlier said all members of both ships' crews had been  accounted for.
The less seriously damaged Panama-registered Ariake, carrying a cargo of  fruit, was taken under tow by the merchant vessel Aberthauw towards Rotterdam.
The collision was fifth such accident in the Channel or North Sea in five  years.
