Britain has refused visas to two outspoken  Chinese dissidents in the United States who had planned to attend a Tiananmen  Square anniversary seminar in Hong Kong, reports said Saturday.
News that Liu Binyan and Ruan Ming had been turned down came on the day  dissident intellectual Yu Haocheng left Beijing for the United States.
And while Yu's departure was seen as gesture by the Chinese authorities in  the run-up to Washington's decision to renew trade privileges, Beijing has  also been accused of being behind the blocking of Liu and Ruan.
The US-exiled Chinese were quoted as saying that the British consulate in  New York had refused them visas on instructions from Hong Kong's immigration  department.
They had planned to attend a seminar coinciding with the fifth anniversary  of the Beijing massacre that silenced seven weeks of student-led democracy  protests in Tiananmen Square.
In a letter to the seminar's organizers, Ruan -- a former top-level  communist party aide -- accused Governor Chris Patten's administration of  sidling up to China, which takes back the territory in 1997.
"Its aim is to ingratiate itself with the Chinese authorities. But its  move is setting aside Hong Kong's legal and democratic system," Ruan told the  South China Morning Post newspaper.
A government spokesman refused to comment Saturday on the visa refusals,  saying it cannot discuss individual cases.
But Hong Kong chief secretary Anson Chan declared on Thursday that Hong  Kong would not welcome "visitors" who sought to use the colony as a "base for  subversion" against Beijing.
Liu earned notoriety for revealing government corruption when a reporter  at the People's Daily newspaper. Ruan was secretary to former Chinese  Communist Party general secretary Hu Yaobang, whose death in May 1989  triggered the Tiananmen protests.
Both men have been in the United States for several years, pursuing  studies at Ivy League universities.
With official nerves becoming apparent in the run-up to the June 4  anniversary of the crackdown, China has already complained about another  leading dissident, Han Dongfang, being allowed to stay in Hong Kong.
Reports say Wu'er Kaixi, one of the student leaders, may come to the  territory next week.
But Yu Haocheng left Beijing on Saturday more than three years after he  first applied to the Chinese authorities for an exit visa, his wife said.
Yu left on a Northwest Airlines flight for New York, where he is to take  up a research and teaching post at Columbia University, his wife explained.
A leading expert on constitutional law, 68-year-old Yu was placed under  house arrest in Beijing for more than one year after the pro-democracy  crackdown.
On May 14, 1989, Yu had joined 11 other intellectuals in a public appeal  to the government to declare the student-led pro-democracy campaign "a  patriotic democracy movement."
Aftr his release from house arrest in 1990, he continued to speak out on  the need for fundamental legal reforms and to publish dissident-style views in  the foreign media.
Yu's repeated applications to leave China to accept invitations from  abroad had previously all been turned down, but he finally received a passport  on May 9.
The decision to grant Yu a passport was widely seen as as a gesture to the  United States in the run up to President Bill Clinton's decision on whether to  renew China's most-favoured-nation (MFN) trading status.
Clinton renewed China's MFN Thursday with only limited sanctions, and  abandoned his policy of linking trade issues with human rights.
