French President Francois Mitterrand and  German Chancellor Helmut Kohl Monday held talks in this eastern French city  focusing on preparations for a European summit and a Group of Seven meeting.
Kohl and Mitterrand, presiding over the 63rd Franco-German summit, are  coordinating closely on European issues with Paris due to succeed Bonn as  president of the European Union following Germany's six-month stint beginning  in July.
A summit of the 12 EU leaders is to be held on the Greek island of Corfu  on June 24 and 25 at the end of Greece's presidency.
A French presidential spokesman said that the two leaders "showed a great  convergence of views" on a range of subjects including European issues,  nuclear cooperation with Ukraine, the preparation for the French and German  European presidencies and the succession to the presidency of the European  Commission.
Mitterrand also reiterated his call for an immediate international summit  on the war in Bosnia-Hercegovina, bringing together the European Union, Russia  and the United States.
"Every delay carries dangers with it and public opinion risks growing  impatient if things do not happen," he said.
Earlier French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe agreed with his German  counterpart, Klaus Kinkel, that the Group of Seven summit -- bringing together  Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States -- in the  Italian city of Naples in July would be a "cut-off point."
Juppe said that a fresh meeting of European, Russian, UN and US officials  could be in Geneva, between the upcoming meeting of the warring Bosnian  parties at Talloires in France and the Group of Seven summit in Naples in July.
"If nothing happens before the summer, it will have consequences," Juppe  said, refering to France's previous threat to pull their UN troops out of  Bosnia.
The French presidential spokesman said Mitterrand and Kohl had agreed  their two countries should push more European infrastructure spending at the  EU summit, notably on high-speed Paris-Brussels rail links and their  extensions to Cologne, Berlin and London.
German government spokesman Dieter Vogel meanwhile said France and Germany  would on Tuesday unveil a joint initiative for combating racism and xenophobia  in Europe.
The text would be formally presented to their European partners at the  Corfu summit.
The two leaders propose harmonising the legislation of the various member  states in order to oppose extreme rightwing wing violence and propaganda more  effectively.
"An overall strategy must be developed within the European Union,", Vogel  said.
Diplomats said the push for the initiative came from Kohl who was  particularly concerned over the upsurge in racist violence that has left  dozens of people dead since German reunification and on the harmful effect on  Germany's image abroad.
And underlining the efforts to maintain good relations between the two  countries, Kohl gave Mitterrand a Claude Monet painting stolen by Nazi troops  during World War II, and asked that it be returned to the family who had owned  it, French and German sources said.
The untitled painting, showing the snow-covered Louveciennes road west of  Paris dates from the 1870s. It is one of 28 paintings found in former east  German museums after the collapse of the Berlin wall.
Among the other works found in eastern Germany are one by Delacroix,  another by Courbet, a Renoir, a Gauguin, two Georges Seurats, a Cezanne and  sketches by Corot, Millet and Manet.
Germany has pledged to return all such art works to their one-time owners,  where possible.
