Chancellor Helmut Kohl's candidate for upcoming  presidential elections in Germany, Roman Herzog, expressed concern Sunday that  a recent rampage against Africans could tarnish the country's image on the  international scene.
Herzog, speaking during a television interview, said last Thursday's  rampage in the east German town of Magdeburg was "atrocious" and added that he  was concerned the incident could spark "negative reaction on the international  scene, even in countries close to Germany."
The violence involved gangs of skinheads who banded together to hunt down  foreigners, most of them Africans.
Around 50 youths, armed with sticks and knives, turned on a group of  Africans before launching a full-scale manhunt through the streets. According  to police up to 150 youths took part in the violence, in which three people  were reported injured.
Herzog, head of Germany's constitutional court and the focus of recent  criticism because of his conservative views on German citizenship, said the  only way to respond to the violence was "through commitment by the police and  the courts."
German authorities have been heavily criticized for their handling of the  latest violence and public outrage increased after the local prosecutor's  office freed all but one of the 50 arrested, citing lack of evidence.
In response to the public outcry Kohl's Christian Democratic Union has  called an emergency meeting of the committee on legislation in the lower house  for Monday.
It is proposing that police be given powers to hold suspects in custody  for longer without pressing charges and for stiffer penalties for those  convicted of racist attacks.
But it could run into opposition from the Liberal FDP, which maintains  that existing legislation is sufficient so long as it is firmly implemented.
Meanwhile local Christian and Jewish organisations decided over the  weekend to set up their own citizens' watch groups to protect synagogues and  homes for asylum seekers.
Herzog, considered a favorite in the May 23 presidential elections, said  although the racist violence was partly related to "youth facing a bleak  future," that did not justify their actions.
"He who believes he can hit foreigners, set homes on fire and take part in  a manhunt, must understand by all means at the disposal of the state that his  actions will not be tolerated," Herzog said.
The 60-year-old candidate sparked widespread criticism by the opposition  Social Democrats and the local Turkish community a week ago after he suggested  that foreigners who did not wish to adopt German citizenship should leave the  country.
"We must tell those who decide not to adopt German citizenship that they  should return to their country of origin which they apparently consider as  their nation," he said at the time.
Herzog is Kohl's second choice for the presidential elections. His first  hand-picked candidate, Steffen Heitmann, was forced to withdraw in November  because of his controversial rightwing statements.
