Dry, blustery winds swept millions of tonnes of  topsoil thousands of kilometres (miles) across Australia and left Sydney's  skyline shrouded Thursday beneath a massive dust cloud.
The dust storm turned the clear sky a dirty grey, cast a fine film of dirt   over cars and left the air heavy with fine particles which prompted official  health warnings to asthmatics.
Winds stripped the surface from farmland, lifted the soil 1,000 metres  (3,000 feet) into the air and transported it eastwards across the continent,  scientists said.
"It is a tragedy, because that soil is gone for good, you cannot get it  back," said John Williams, research scientist with the Commonwealth Scientific  and Industrial Research Organisation.
Researchers using satellite data had measured one dust cloud over South  Australia, which had since spread over Sydney, to be about 800 kilometres (500  miles) long and 200 kilometres wide with a depth of 200 metres.
"That had in it, in our estimate, about twenty to thirty million tonnes of  topsoil including about 10 million dollars (7.3 million US) worth of  fertiliser," said Williams, deputy chief of the organisation's soils division.
Winds of only 30 to 40 knots were stripping the bare earth from farms,  mainly in South Australia but also in Western Australia, Victoria and New  South Wales, he said.
Poor land management had been compounded by dry conditions which prevented  crops from sprouting, leaving the tilled earth unprotected from the weather,  Williams explained.
"This is a natural phenomenon but it has been aggravated by our land use  making it unable to withstand the variable climate," he said.
Farmers in many of the worst affected areas of South Australia had burned  off wheat stubble in the mistaken belief that they were helping to eradicate a  plague of mice that struck earlier this year.
In that state alone, Williams estimated soil erosion would cut the  430-million-dollar annual wheat crop by five to 10 percent. "I would say a  20-million-dollar loss in South Australia would be a conservative figure."
Health officials warned people in Sydney suffering from asthma against  taking strenuous excercise after the New South Wales Environment Protection  Authority measured high levels of pollution.
However, a spokesman for the New South Wales Health Department said soil  particles were relatively benign when compared to other irritants such as car  exhaust fumes.
The state's ambulance service reported an increase in emergency calls from  asthmatics.
Dust clouds blown to high altitudes would be swept thousands of kilometres  across the Tasman Sea, southeast of Australia, Williams said, and could reach  New Zealand during the next 10 days.
