Taiwanese President Lee Teng-hui returned Monday  from a state tour in which he secured official ties with four countries,  including South Africa, the nation considered most likely to switch diplomatic  recognition to Taiwan's long-time rival, China.
Lee, who visited Nicaragua, Costa Rica, South Africa and Swaziland, was  greeted on his return by a squad of high-ranking government officials,  including Premier Lien Chan.
His trip -- the first state visit by a Taiwanese president in 17 years --  was hailed by Taiwanese media as a success.
Leaders of Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Swaziland signed joint communiques  with Lee during his visit there, and also pledged to support Taiwan in its bid  to rejoin the United Nations, which ousted Taipei to admit Beijing in 1971.
South African President Nelson Mandela, whom local press predicted would  shift diplomatic recognition to Beijing, said he had no plans for such a move.
"After my meeting with President Mandela, I can solemnly declare that the  relations between our two countries are very solid. You can feel safe to stay  and do big business here," Lee told Taiwanese business and community leaders  in a reception in Johannesburg, state TV reported last week.
Mandela, in a visit to Taipei last year, said he would not abandon China,  which had helped the African National Congress (ANC) for more than 30 years.  The remarks were interpreted as a plan to establish formal ties with Beijing  after he became president.
South Africa is the largest of the 29 nations that recognize Taiwan, which  has been embroiled in a diplomatic battle with China since the end of the  Chinese civil war in 1949. Taipei bans direct contact with Beijing after the  nationalist government fled here in 1949.
Lee told Taiwanese reporters in South Africa Sunday that his visits to the  four countries were significant, as China had done all it could to try to  isolate Taiwan internationally.
"The Chinese communists have been unfriendly to us.... We have stopped  treating them as enemy, but still they threaten to invade us," the Taiwan  Television Enterprise quoted Lee as saying.
Beijing views Taiwan as a renegade province and has warned other countries  against forging ties with Taipei.
