Hundreds of previously unknown prisoners, arrested  after the 1989 crackdown on China's pro-democracy movement, are serving  lengthy jail terms, a human rights report said Thursday.
The publication of the report by US-based Human Rights Watch/Asia, which  also provides harrowing accounts of widespread torture in Chinese prisons,  comes weeks before Washington must decide whether China has made the necessary  progress on human rights to warrant renewal of its preferential trade status.
The 60-page report, entitled "The Price of Obscurity in China," documents  almost 500 cases in Beijing alone of previously unrecorded sentences handed  down to individuals in the aftermath of the June 4 Tiananmen Square massacre.
More than 200 are still languishing in two correctional facilities run by  the Beijing authorities -- Beijing No. 2 Prison and Qinghe Farm -- performing  hard labour and often subject to torture and other abuses.
Almost none of those listed are students or intellectuals and most have  received 10 years to life terms, which are far harsher sentences for their  involvement in the 1989 protests, the report said.
As the list is confined to individuals sentenced in Beijing, the number of  names "serves again to demonstrate that known cases of political and religious  imprisonment in China represent only the tip of the iceberg," it said.
"We can safely assume that thousands of prisoners whose names we do not  know still languish in prison for their role in those protests."
The prisoners, ranging in age from 17 to 71, come from a broad spectrum of  Beijing society and include peasants, security guards, factory workers,  engineers and cadres in the State Planning Commission.
The list also documents 35 newly discovered political prisoners -- almost  all charged with "counter-revolutionary activities" -- who were convicted  during and after the 1989 demonstrations. Many received sentences in excess of  10 years and several are serving life terms or commuted death sentences.
According to the report, torture is routine in the Beijing No. 2 Prison,  where electric shock punishments are common and guards instigate other  prisoners to use iron rods, batons and rubber tubes against  "counter-revolutionaries."
The report is likely to place further pressure on US President Bill  Clinton who must decide by June 3 whether to renew China's  most-favoured-nation (MFN) status with the United States.
Clinton has made significant progress in China's human rights record a  precondition for MFN renewal.
It also describes in detail the elaborate preparations made by the Chinese  government in January 1994 at Beijing No. 2 Prison in anticipation of a visit  by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) that was eventually  cancelled.
Preparations included the transfer of sick prisoners, closure of  punishment cells, repainting, provisions of new towels and bedsheets that the  prisoners had to pay for and then were not allowed to use, and the first hot  showers that detainees had had in more than a year.
Chinese Minister of Justice Xiao Yang reportedly assumed personal command  of the preparatory work.
The ICRC is currently negotiating with Beijing to be allowed regular  access to political and other detainees throughout China.
The report also alleges that prisoners at the Beijing No. 2 Prison are  forced to work as quality-control checkers for latex gloves produced for both  domestic and foreign consumption.
An end to the use of prison labour in the production of export goods was  one of the main conditions attached by Clinton to MFN renewal.
(attention embargo)
