The UN Security Council is considering a  resolution or declaration asking battling northern and southern Yemin to  return to the negotiating table, British Ambassador Sir David Hannay said  Thursday.
Oman's ambassador to the United Nations, Salim Bin Mohammed Al-Khussaiby,  was taking an active role in the informal discussions, as was Saudi Arabia's  ambassador to the United States, Prince Bandar Bin Sultan, said Hannay as he  arrived at the Security Council.
Oman and Saudi Arabia border Yemen and are concerned about the possible  effects of the conflict on the region, said Hannay. Al-Khussaiby will be the  Security Council president as of June 1.
The League of Arab States also told UN Secretary-General Butros  Butros-Ghali of their willingness to help.
In Sanaa, President Ali Abdallah Saleh's government on Thursday rejected a  Saudi proposal for the UN Security Council to try to end the three-week  conflict in Yemen through a ceasefire and arms embargo.
Officials of the breakaway state in the south welcomed the proposal.
A senior north Yemeni leader, Parliament speaker Abdullah al-Ahmar, said  in Abu Dhabi Thursday that Yemen rejected any interference by the United  Nations security council on the grounds the war is an internal affair.
"Discussion (is) going on as to whether there is any way in which the  Security Council could usefully encourage the parties to stop fighting and to  get back to discussing matters at the conference table," said Hannay.
Diplomats said that the Saudi Arabians leaned in favor of the south and  that is was unlikely that a resolution proposed by Prince Bandar would be  approved unchanged.
Several states were reluctant to interfere at all in what they said was  Yemen's internal affairs.
The Saudi text calls for an immediate ceasefire and immediate arms embargo  and adds that no solution should be imposed.
The Saudis also called for U.N. Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to  immediately send an envoy to Yemen.
Yemen's representative, Abdalla Saleh al-Ashtal, said that any effort to  reach peace must include efforts to prevent Yemen from splitting apart.
