An influential US senator Sunday opposed any US  invasion of Haiti simply to restore ousted president Jean-Bertrand Aristide  and suggested a broader coalition was needed to stabilise the country.
Sam Nunn, chairman of the Senate armed services committee, said in a  televised interview he would not rule out military action against the junta  that overthrew Aristide in September 1991.
But Nunn added: "Equating the return of one man who does not even have a  majority in the parliament with democracy, and making that the goal and worthy  of an invasion and American lives, I think would be a mistake."
The Georgia Democrat, considered one of the top foreign policy and defense  experts in Congress, said Washington should focus on easing poverty in Haiti,  stemming the flow of refugees and building a democratic coalition.
Others here have also raised questions about Aristide, a Catholic priest  who won a landslide victory in Haiti's first democratic elections in December  1990. A leaked CIA report portrayed him as mentally unstable.
The United States, frustrated in its efforts to negotiate the return of  Aristide, spearheaded a UN move to tighten the embargo on Haiti which permits  in theory the delivery of only food and medicines.
Nunn said the military regime running the Caribbean nation would have to  step down but added: "There has got to be a coalition there in the parliament  that can grant amnesty so that that kind of thing can be brought about."
"If we do that, then we can begin building some form of democracy there  and begin easing up on the embargo, which can alleviate some of the suffering,  which may end up causing the very kind of massive migration we don't want."
Nunn rejected the argument that if the sanctions fail a military invasion  would be necessary to restore US credibility.
"I don't ever believe you should start a war because you've got a  temporary credibility problem," he said. "America is a superpower. Everybody  knows it. Everybody knows if they push us too far, then the Clinton  administration will react to that."
Nunn also said the United States would have to beef up its military  presence on the Korean peninsula if the United Nations moved to punish  Pyongyang for refusing to allow full inspection of its nuclear facilities.
Pyongyang has said it would consider sanctions an act of war, but Nunn  said the United States had a "sacred obligation" to defend South Korea.
"If North Korea begins a war in reaction to any kind of sanctions, then  they will bring about the destruction of their own country," he said.
Nunn said the United States, which has 38,000 troops stationed in South  Korea, would be able to wipe out the North's capacity to produce nuclear arms  but would have trouble totally eliminating any existing stockpiles.
"If they've got weapons hidden in a cave somewhere, I mean, you're not going  to find that, even if you invaded the country and took over the country," he  said.
He added that any military attack on North Korean facilities ran the risk  of releasing nuclear material that could endanger both the North and South.
