It may be time to ease pressure on Japan to  make specific market opening commitments because of the domestic political  upheaval in Tokyo, President Bill Clinton's top economic advisor said Tuesday.
Senior Japanese officials are due in Washington later this week for talks  which could pave the way for a resumption of bilateral trade talks which  collapsed in February.
"The issue here is ... trying to moderate or adjust the timing to the  political realities in Japan without changing the overall thrust of the  policy," Clinton's chief economic advisor at the White House, Laura D'Andrea  Tyson, said in an interview published in the Washington Post.
"A policy which is sensible under one set of circumstances may have to be  adjusted to a set of circumstances which no one ... predicted would be the  case," she said.
Washington has hitherto insisted that it will not back down on its  insistence on numerical targets to measure progress in opening Japanese  markets under an agreement reached in July, and that it is up to Japan to come  up with new proposals.
But the administration is now apparently debating whether it should ease  back a little given the domestic political problems in Japan, which are at  least partly due to disputes over economic reform.
Washington has been faced with three different Japanese prime ministers in  the 10 months since reaching the framework agreement aimed at opening Tokyo's  markets and reducing its 60 billion dollar trade surplus with the United  States.
The current coalition government of Tsutomu Hata is less than a month old  and is at best shaky. It narrowly escaped a no-confidence motion Tuesday.
But Commerce Secretary Ron Brown warned in a television interview Monday  that the US government could not be paralyzed in its policy objectives  "because of those domestic political difficulties in Japan."
"Our policy and position has been very consistent for well over a year  now," Brown said.
He said he hoped the Japanese negotiators would bring to Washington "a set  of arrangements, agreements, proposals that, in fact, give us a reason to  re-enter the framework negotiations."
But Japan's International Trade and Industry Minister Eijiro Hata said  Tuesday in Tokyo that the negotiators would not be bringing specific answers  to three conditions for resuming the talks -- compromises in macroeconomic  policies, the purpose of the talks and the dispute over "objective criteria."
"Rather than bringing answers, we want to begin with reviews" of the talks  and each side's opinions, Hata said.
Sozaburo Okamatsu, vice minister for international affairs at the  International Trade and Industry Ministry, and Sadayuki Hayashi, deputy  foreign minister for economic affairs, are to represent Japan at the  Washington meeting.
Officials at the US Trade Representative's office which has been  conducting the negotiations stressed Tuesday that the session would be "talks  about talks" and not a resumption of full-fledged negotiations.
The talks broke down in February after a summit meeting between Clinton  and then Japanese prime minister during which Hosokawa said Japan could not  accept US demands to set numerical targets in cutting its trade surplus.
Hosokawa said that such targets would undermine the free trade system and  lead to managed trade.
The US side argues that the framework agreement is meaningless unless  there is some tangible way to chart progress in opening Japan's markets to  foreign products.
The two sides said last month that they hoped to find a "basis of  agreement" to resume the talks before the G7 summit in Naples in July.
But it was only after telephone calls last week between Clinton and Hata,  and Kantor and the Japanese Foreign Minister, Koji Kakizawa, that a date was  set.
