A court investigator called Tuesday for Bernard  Tapie's parliamentary immunity to be lifted so he may answer possible charges  of tax evasion concerning his luxury yacht Phocea, judicial officials said.
The request, issued by a Paris examining magistrate Eva Joly, relates to a  probe by French tax and customs authorities.
They suspect the maverick soccer boss and self-made millionaire of evading  tax by declaring the 74-metre yacht as a commercial vessel while reserving it  for his personal use.
The Phocea is thought to be the only asset of the Alain Colas Tahiti  company (ACT), a subsidiary of Tapie's FIBT property company.
Part of Joly's investigation centres on verifying the transfer of  "apparently suspect funds" between FIBT subsidiaries including ACT via a  sister company of the Credit Lyonnais bank, the officials said.
His long-term financier, Credit Lyonnais broke off commercial relations  with Tapie last week, announcing Saturday that a March 13 agreement on  rescheduling his debt, with a mortgage on his property, had lapsed.
Tapie told AFP Tuesday that the call for his immunity from prosecution to  be lifted was the latest manifestation of a concerted campaign to discredit  him, thereby wrecking his European parliament election campaign.
A deputy for the Movement of Radicals of the Left (MRG), he heads a  left-wing list to the Euro-elections on June 12 credited in the polls with at  least 10 percent of votes.
Tapie said: "In nine months -- the duration of a pregnancy -- I have been  the target of three requests to lift my parliamentary immunity, five court  investigations on 18 charges, 27 fiscal probes, 19 searches of my office and  four at my home, and virtually uninterrupted telephone tapping."
Tapie has had his immunity lifted to face embezzlement charges in the case  of one of his companies, the weighing machine firm Testut, and has been  indicted for fraud and embezzlement in the accounting of the Olympique  Marseille (OM) soccer club.
OM, of which Tapie is the president, was recently relegated to second  division by order of soccer authorities over a match-fixing case involving a  game with northern team Valenciennes at the end of the 1993 season.
Approval for lifting of parliamentary immunity must be sought through a  request from appeal court authorities via the justice minister to the speaker  of the chamber of deputies.
