An international conference on alleged Indonesian  military abuses in East Timor opened in the Philippines on Tuesday with  approval from the Supreme Court, dealing a blow to President Fidel Ramos'  efforts to appease Jakarta.
The Supreme Court temporarily suspended a lower court ban on the four-day  gathering which was imposed last week in support of a Ramos ally's contention  that the private meeting would cause "irreparable harm" to  Philippine-Indonesian relations.
However, the high court upheld Ramos' authority to expel foreigners in the  interest of national security. Conference organizers said about a dozen  American, Australian, Portuguese and Indian participants had managed to enter  the country.
Ten others, including Irish Nobel Peace Prize winner Mairead Maguire, were  expelled.
The government responded to the Supreme Court decision by cancelling the  visas of 10 other foreign participants. Manuel Roxas, deputy commissioner of  the immigration bureau, ordered in a memorandum that the group be "taken under  custody pending their removal from the country."
"There is no law that prevents us from arresting them inside" the  state-run University of the Philippines, which is hosting the meeting, Roxas  said in a radio interview here, but added without elaborating that "there are  other ways to enforce the order."
Local human rights activist Renato Constantino declared the conference  open before several hundred participants packed the school's law auditorium at  mid-afternoon Tuesday.
Participants included 27 foreign delegates who chanted, "Free Xanana  Gusmao, Free East Timor," as they raised clenched fists. Gusmao is the  detained leader of the Fretilin pro-independence guerrilla group in East Timor.
A human cordon fetched the foreign delegates from a nearby university  hostel, but there was no sign of police presence except for two school  policemen who report directly to the university authorities.
Indonesian troops invaded the former Portuguese territory in 1975 and  annexed it a year later. The United Nations does not recognize Jakarta's  sovereignty over East Timor, but Manila does.
The Supreme Court in a resolution ordered the lower court to "cease and  desist from enforcing" its ban on the conference "until further orders from  this court," and ordered the judge to explain his ruling within five days.
"Nothing in this resolution should be interpreted as impairing the  constitutional and statutory authority of the President of the Philippines to  exclude aliens from entering the Philippines when demanded by national  interest and national security," the Supreme Court said.
Organizers had invited French First Lady Danielle Mitterrand, European  jurists, and anti-Indonesian Fretilin guerrillas to the conference.
Mitterrand, a human rights campaigner, subsequently cancelled her  participation under pressure from Indonesian President Suharto, and also to  avoid further embarrassment to the Philippines.
The conference has drawn the ire of the Indonesian government, which  cancelled the visit of its industry minister here and pulled out of a regional  business conference in the southern Philippines.
It has also threatened to abort its role as go-between between the Manila  government and Moslem guerrillas in the southern Philippines. Jakarta had  hosted the opening of peace talks last year.
