The Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), which is to meet  here Tuesday to find its next leader and a new direction amid the wars raging  in developing countries, has decided to welcome South Africa but keep out  Serbia.
A preliminary meeting of experts approved an application from Pretoria,  following the scrapping of apartheid and its first all-race elections last  month.
The NAM officials raised the South African flag, Egypt's official news  agency MENA said. It would officially become the 109th member when foreign  ministers opened the four-day conference.
Egypt has invited Bosnia, Britain, France, Germany and Russia to the  conference as guests, but a Russian request for observer status was turned  down.
The meeting on Monday decided to ignore a Serbian application to join,  although Bosnia has been invited to attend the conference. Nabil Arabi,  Egypt's UN representative, said NAM members would not discuss Serbia's request.
Serbia and Bosnia are vying for the former Yugoslavia's seat in the  organisation. Yugoslavia was a founding and influential member of the group.
But Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Mussa has said Serbia was not the "sole  legitimate heir" of Yugoslavia and that it had violated international law with  its "aggression" against Bosnian Moslems.
Eighty-five countries are sending their foreign ministers for the  conference, including Alfred Nizo for South Africa, Egyptian officials said.
On the agenda will be conflicts threatening several member states, such as  Yemen, Rwanda and Bosnia.
The delegates have to choose a new venue -- and chairman -- for the next  NAM summit of developing countries when Indonesia's three-year term runs out  in September 1995.
Kuala Lumpur has said it will not seek a second term.
So far no country has announced its candidacy, although Latin American  states have been lobbying for the position since the region last hosted the  summit in 1979, in Cuba.
According to an Egyptian diplomatic source, Iran could be a candidate to  take over the chairmanship of NAM.
Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati became the most senior official  from Iran to visit Egypt since 1979 when he arrived for the NAM meeting. The  two countries do not have diplomatic relations.
The conference will also set up a committee to re-examine the role of NAM  with the end of the Cold War and superpower rivalry.
Both Egypt and Indonesia are expected to submit documents outlining their  vision of the future for the organisation, which was set up in Bandung,  Indonesia in 1955.
Cairo had proposed that NAM be integrated into the Group of 77 developing  countries and lobby bloc at the United Nations, but a majority of members have  opposed the proposal.
The repercussions of the GATT free-trade accords are also on the agenda of  the conference, which is to wind up with a Cairo declaration.
