The Security Council voted unanimously  Tuesday to extend the mandate of the UN Operation in Somalia for four months,  but under strict conditions sought by the United States.
The terms of the renewal were set out in resolution 923 adopted by the  15-member council, underscoring a new, US-backed drive to establish clear  terms for the renewal of UN missions worldwide.
Though Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali sought a six-month  extension of the mission, the council opted for four, stretching through  September 30 "subject to a review by the (Security) Council no later than 29  July 1994," the resolution says.
The secretary general was asked to prepare a report "on the humanitarian  mission carried out by UNOSOM and on the political and security situation in  Somalia, and progress made in achieving national reconciliation," according to  the resolution.
Based on the review and report, the council may then ask the UN chief to  set out options on the mission's mandate and future operations.
Peace talks between rival Somali factions, which were scheduled for Monday  in Nairobi, were postponed for the fourth time in two months.
Conditions were put on the mandate renewal to try to make sure the mission  -- with an authorized troop strength of 22,000 -- does not get bogged down  indefinitely.
Several weeks ago, the United States -- which contributes about 25 percent  of the UN's regular budget and some 31.7 percent of funds for all UN  peacekeeping operations -- began taking a tougher tack in the council on  peacekeeping missions, demanding progress in certain areas if mandate renewal  is to follow.
But while the council cautiously kept to a four-month renewal Monday, it  did not reaffirm its past statement that the mission's goal was to complete  its work by March 1995.
US and other western forces completed their pull-out of ground troops from  Somalia March 31.
After helping put an end to famine in the Horn of Africa country, the  United States opted to begin to phase out its military role on the ground  after 18 US troops were killed in October 1993 in clashes with militia loyal  to General Mohamed Farah Aidid.
The UN force on the ground in Somalia, which currently numbers about  18,000, comprises mostly troops from Pakistan and India.
In Washington, a senior Pentagon official said Tuesday that a four-ship US  task force with 4,000 Marines and sailors is set to leave Somali waters in the  next week.
The force is led by the San Diego-based amphibious assault ship USS  Peleliu, which has been stationed off the east African coast since March.
Its mission was to back up the withdrawal of US troops from Somalia and to  evacuate US diplomats in case of emergency.
But the need never arose and the ships have little time to begin their  voyage back to the US west coast if they are to keep to their six-month  deployment, a senior defense department official said.
