Rescuers dug through the rubble here Tuesday for  survivors after a missile pulverized houses and damaged a hospital, killing at  least 13 people and wounding more than 100, officials said.
The missile was fired Monday by forces loyal to southern leader Ali Salem  al-Baid who have been at war since May 5 with troops backing Yemeni President  Ali Abdallah Saleh, a northerner, they added.
However, the southern Yemen defence ministry accused the north of  "fabricating" the attack and denied its forces had fired a missile.
Colonel Yehya Zahir, the Yemeni capital's director of security, told  reporters at least 13 people were killed -- most of them women, children and  the elderly -- and said rescuers expected to find more bodies.
Around 108 people were injured, including 70 patients, two doctors and  eight nurses at the Al-Jomhuriya Hospital, damaged by the blast as the missile  exploded just 150 meters (yards) away, Health Minister Najib Ghanim said.
The missile completely destroyed eight houses and damaged 24 others when  it slammed into a densely populated area near the presidential palace,  officials at the scene said.
All that was left were large piles of rubble and the ground was littered  with wooden beams and corrugated sheeting, an AFP correspondent said. The  missile left a crater 30 meters wide (100 feet) and five meters (16 feet) deep.
Previous missile attacks in the three-week civil war killed 25 people in  Sanaa on May 11 and four in the southern capital Aden on Sunday.
A soldier displayed blackened bits of metal -- all that remained of the  missile which was described by many as a Scud like the one used by Iraq during  the 1991 Gulf war.
Soldiers wielding batons tried to push back a crowd of more than 100  residents who gathered at the scene.
A local resident, Mahmud Hamad, called the attack the "inhuman action of  traitor (southern leader Ali Salem) al-Baid and his bunch of mutineers." More  than 12 pregnant women miscarried because of the blast, he added.
Ghanim said after visiting the damaged hospital that "some operations were  being carried out at the time" the building was hit. At least 70 of the 150  patients were injured and 50 were transferred to other hospitals, he said.
All the hospital's windows were broken, shards of glass lay everywhere, a  buckled window frame hung precariously over a stairway, and an operating table  had been knocked to the floor with a broken window lying on top.
Electricity in the hospital had been cut by the explosion.
Mansur Ahmed Taha, a soldier who was shot in the foot during a tank battle  at Amran before the war started, said he was hit on the shoulder by flying  glass as he lay in his hospital bed.
"Those who could walk ran away but we could not," Taha said.
Hamid Mohammad Mohammad, who had a broken leg in plaster and was in the  next bed, said: "The building shook. I thought it was an air raid, not a  missile.
"It's a war of interests. Baid wants separation. The other side wants  unity. The war is justified because we have to protect unity," he said. "We  are willing to sacrifice the Yemeni people to the last drop of blood."
A member of the presidential council, Abdulaziz Abdel Ghani, said "the  target of this rocket is not military. It was a hospital. This is in the  tradition of a small clique in the YSP who have always made a policy of  killing civilians. This is a cowardly attack on a civilian population."
Meanwhile, an official government statement read on Sanaa Radio said the  public prosecutor's office had issued arrest warrants for 15 southern leaders,  including Baid.
The others included former defense minister Haitham Qassem Taher, former  prime minister Haidar Abu Bakr al-Attas, and ex-oil minister Saleh Abu Bakr  Ibn Hussainoun.
Attas was appointed prime minister of the breakaway Yemeni Democratic  Rebulic proclaimed last Saturday.
