Eleven freed French aid workers arrived at a  military airbase near here late Wednesday, hours after their release from more  than a month in Bosnian Serb detention.
The 11 members of the aid organization Premiere Urgence were met by  relatives, Defence Minister Francois Leotard and Foreign Minister Alain Juppe.
All of them wore red baseball caps and broad smiles as they came down the  aircraft steps to an emotional welcome at the Villacoublay base.
They had been held for 41 days in a Serb prison in a Sarajevo suburb, on  the basis of what their colleagues said were trumped up charges of gun-running  for the Bosnian Moslems.
Their nightmare ended as they stepped onto the tarmac to the applause of  their friends and relatives and to the evident relief of Leotard and Juppe.
The only woman among the 11, Patricia Ettouati, spoke of the humiliation  they had endured in captivity, but said she wanted to return to Bosnia.
"We were never physically ill-treated. It was all done on a psychological  level. First the Serbs would build up our hopes, then they would prick the  balloon. It was all highs and lows, highs and lows," she said.
She said they had first heard of their imminent release from their jailers  around midday on Wednesday (1000 GMT).
Three hours later, French UN peacekeepers came to pick them up in their  armoured vehicles to take them to Sarajevo airport, where they were taken out  by helicopter to the Rance, one of the French naval ships patrolling the  Adriatic.
From there they were helicoptered out to the Cervia airbase in northern  Italy, and then on to Villacoublay.
Before they were released, a Premiere Urgence representative handed over  44,000 dollars bail to the Serbs.
Ettouati denied media reports that members of the group had been subjected  to mock executions.
Another of the former prisoners, Olivier Laurent, said he was anxious to  get back to Bosnia, where the organisation's aid programmes are still up and  running in Vitez, Zenica and Mostar, as well as in the Moslem quarter of  Sarajevo, according to Premiere Urgence official Thierry Mauricet.
