A senior Taiwan official warned Sunday that  restrictions on links with China could not be lifted until there was a proper  and open inquiry into the killing of 24 Taiwanese tourists.
"We are not ready to remove the curbs yet," said Yeh Chin-feng, vice  chairman of the cabinet-level Mainland Affairs Council (MAC), in a warning  that relations risk remaining cool.
The tough stance comes after a delegation investigating the tragedy  returned from China unhappy with the way the inquiry is being handled.
Taiwan cut off tourist, cultural and educational ties with China over the  March 31 deaths of the tourists, who were robbed and killed on a pleasure boat  on Lake Qiando, in eastern China.
Thirty-two people on a sightseeing trip, including six Chinese crew and  two guides, died when robbers apparently locked them in a room before setting  the vessel ablaze.
China originally insisted the deaths were accidental. But authorities have  since charged three people with murder, arson and robbery and a fourth man is  accused of hiding loot from the raid.
But Yeh said the MAC -- the top policy planner for dealing with Beijing --  would only consider resuming cultural, educational and tourism exchanges after  Beijing provided a reasonable account of the incident and paid compensation to  families.
The MAC released a statement Saturday saying China had not given  satisfactory answers to key queries raised by the fact-finding delegation, led  by Shi Hwei-you, Deputy Secretary-general of the semi-official Straits  Exchange Foundation (SEF).
Shi told reporters after his return Saturday that requests to examine the  victims' autospy reports and to interview witnesses and suspects had all been  rejected.
Taiwan has said that Chinese accounts claim that only two of the three  suspects went aboard the pleasure boat to rob and kill the passengers, while  the third man watched from a speed boat.
"How could you imagine two people doing this, when there were 32 people on  board?" Chen Chin-shih, one of the victims' relatives and a member of the  delegation, asked.
Taiwan has charged that about ten people, including Chinese soldiers, were  involved in the case, and relatives of the victims have accused mainland  authorities of hiding the truth about the lake incident.
But Beijing has refuted this as fabrication, saying Taiwan "should be  satisfied" with the investigation and stop using the tragedy as a political  excuse to block ties.
Yeh said she hoped Beijing would seriously study questions posed by the  delegation and punish those involved appropriately.
Meanwhile, Taiwanese travel agencies called for a lifting of the package  tour ban after the delegation's return, as the lost business is costing them  money.
And the chairman of Taiwan's largest opposition party, the Democratic  Progressive Party (DPP), Sunday said his party was willing to work with China  and to coexist peacefully with it.
"The people in Taiwan are willing to stretch out their hands of  friendship, hoping to establish a peaceful coexistence relationship with the  Chinese communists," newly elected DPP chairman Shih Ming-teh said in his  inauguration ceremony here.
"We are willing to treat the Chinese communists as brothers, helping each  other, but the Beijing regime must abandon its ambition to invade and take  Taiwan by force," he said.
Taiwan and China have been at loggerheads since Nationalists fled China  for Taiwan in 1949 after being defeated by the communists in a civil war.
Each government regards itself as the legitimate ruler of all China, while  Beijing sees Taiwan as a renegade province.
