Alexander Solzhenitsyn, who is to end two decades  of exile and return to Russia this week, was the most renowned of Soviet  dissidents and the leader of efforts to expose the horrors of Stalin's regime.
The future Nobel literature laureate was born December 11, 1918 in the  Caucasus city of Kislovodsk. He was brought up by his mother, since his father  died before he was born.
World War II ended his sparkling career as a mathematics and physics  student. He joined the Red Army as an artillery officer, was twice wounded,  decorated and promoted to captain for his courage during the German seige of  Leningrad.
But in 1945 he was condemned without trial to eight years in prison camp  for criticising Josef Stalin in a letter to a childhood friend.
The first four years were spent in a special camp for intellectuals, the  second half working as a laborer in another prison camp.
Solzhenitsyn -- suffering from a cancer that he later recovered from --  was released in 1953 but banished to exile in Central Asia. There, he taught  mathematics and began writing "The First Circle," a sweeping novel about  Stalinist Russia.
In 1956, he was allowed to return from internal exile. In 1962, his  harrowing tale of prison camp life, "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich,"  was published in Novy Mir revue after intervention by Nikita Khrushchev, who  wanted to discredit Stalinism.
But after Khrushchev was deposed, Solzhenitsyn's works were again banned  throughout the Soviet Union and were only available through underground  publishers.
But abroad, translated versions of such books as "The First Circle" and  "Cancer Ward" found huge audiences.
In 1967, he asked for an end to censorship at the Writers' Union, but was  expelled from the organization the following year. In 1970 he was awarded the  Nobel prize for literature, but he decided not to pick up his award in  Stockholm, fearing that he would be barred from reentering the Soviet Union.
The conflict between Solzhenitsyn and the communist government came to a  head late in 1973 when he discovered the KGB had obtained a copy of his  masterpiece about the prison camp system "The Gulag Archipelago."
He immediately authorized publication abroad and as a result was arrested  on February 12, 1974, expelled the next day to West Germany and stripped of  his citizenship.
Accompanied by his family, Solzhenitsyn settled in a quiet corner of the US  state of Vermont in 1976. He has lived as virtual recluse for 18 years,  working on an epic about the Russian revolution.
In 1989 publication of his works began under perestroika in the Soviet  Union, starting with "The Gulag Archipelago."
Mikhail Gorbachev restored his Soviet citizenship in August 1990. The  following month, he published an essay warning against anarchy in Russia and  calling for a Russian federation including Ukraine, Belarus and part of  Kazakhstan -- a proposal he since has repeated.
In September 1991 he was finally cleared of treason by the Soviets and  that same day he announced he would return to live in Russia, without saying  when.
His wife announced Friday that they will return home May 27.
"We leave Vermont with a warm feeling of gratitude," said Natalia  Solzhenitsyn. "We go to Russia with great concern for her present state, but  with hope for her future recovery," she added.
They will fly to Vladivostok in the Russian Far East via Anchorage, Alaska  and then on across the country, she said.
The first stop will be at Magadan, a former prison camp.
It was expected it would take several weeks to complete the journey back  to Moscow where an apartment has been made available for him pending  construction of a country house outside the Russian capital.
