Heavy fighting has erupted between the  two main Kurdish groups in northern Iraq ending a 10-day truce, Kurdish  officials said Thursday.
Clashes, which broke out on Wednesday in the town of Koi Sandjak, some 50  kilometers (30 miles) east of the city of Arbil, in the east of Iraqi  Kurdistan, were reported to be spreading to nearby areas on Thursday.
The Partriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK) led by Jalal Talabani and the  Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) of Massud Barzani accused each other of  starting the battle. No casualty toll has so far been issued.
Northern Iraq has been under PUK and KDP control since an uprising against  Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's army at the end of the Gulf war in February  1991.
Officials from the Iraqi National Congress, a coalition said to represent  all Kurdish and Arab groups opposed to Hussein, accused the PUK of breaching  the May 8 ceasefire agreement in a statement to AFP.
The INC-brokered agreement ended two weeks of fighting in which at least  100 people were killed, and which caused the Kurdish region to split with the  KDP controlling the western part and the PUK the eastern part.
Under the ceasefire accord INC militiamen could control check-points in  the Arbil province lying between areas held by the KDP and the PUK.
"PUK troops came down the hill and took our checkpoint by force, and after  that the KDP started to fight back," Ahmad Mohammed Naseria, a Moslem Shiite  from the southern Iraqi city of Nassiriya, told AFP.
He said the clashes forced him and two fellow Moslem Shiites to flee the  checkpoint and cross the fighting area on foot waving the INC flag.
The United Nations on Monday warned the PUK and KDP that further armed  feuding might halt international aid to the Kurds.
The renewed battles came as the PUK accused Iranian militiamen of having  fought against its forces in previous clashes, saying one Iranian fighter was  captured.
PUK spokesman Mohammed Tofik said an undetermined number of Iranian  Revolution Guards, or Pasdarans, had crossed the Iraq-Iran border and fought  in the nearby Iraqi Kurdish villages of Halabja and Qalat Dizza.
The allegations were strongly denied by KDP spokesman Bruska Shaways.
