Khmer Rouge nominal leader Khieu Samphan has  agreed to attend peace talks with the Cambodian government in Pyongyang later  this month, an official statement from the rebel group said Friday.
"I would like to tell his majesty the king that I am very happy to  participate in the Round Table peace talks for national reconciliation and  peace in Cambodia that begin on May 27," Khieu Samphan said in a statement  released by the royal palace.
Co-premier Prince Norodom Ranariddh welcomed the move, telling AFP:"It's  good. We are ready to go to Pyongyang, and ready to talk."
But he said that while the talks were going on government forces would  continue battling the Khmer Rouge, who are slowly being pushed back to their  headquarters in northwest Pailin following an offensive earlier this month.
"The terms of going to the talks call for no ceasefire," the prince said.
Co-premiers Prince Ranariddh and Hun Sen had agreed to the talks aimed at  bringing peace to the strife-torn country, dropping preconditions for a  ceasefire after an appeal by King Sihanouk. The ceasefire precondition had  deadlocked any progress toward peace, the prince had said.
Hun Sen -- who has been strongly opposed to making concessions to the  Khmer Rouge -- has said the talks will be based on King Sihanouk's peace plan  that includes giving certain "acceptable" members of the Khmer Rouge senior  cabinet posts in exchange for giving up their zones, ceasing all guerrilla  activities and merging rebel fighters with the royal armed forces.
Prince Ranariddh had also said on Wednesday that he was optimistic the  talks would succeed. "We are going to Pyongyang because we believe that we  will have peace and national reconciliation, otherwise we would not go," he  said.
But at the same time, the prince also said that "insecurity" was rife in  Cambodia, and that action had to be taken against the Khmer Rouge "threat."
King Sihanouk has made repeated calls over the past two weeks for foreign  military aid and training to "save Cambodia from the yoke of the Khmer Rouge."      A senior US official in Washington said Wednesday that the United States  was holding talks with Australia and other countries on how to help the  Cambodian government defend itself against the Khmer Rouge.
"It's understandable in the wake of all the turbulence and infighting of  recent years that the new integrated army needs training and a lot of help to  be effective as a military force," said Winston Lord, US assistant secretary  of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs.
The Khmer Rouge were responsible for the deaths of one million Cambodians  during a four-year reign of terror that ended when Vietnamese troops ousted  them from power in 1979.
