English First Division club, Millwall, have been  charged with failing to control supporters, following the hooligan rampage at  their match on Wednesday.
The English Football Association action could result in the closure of the  London club's ground, The New Den, which only opened this season, as well as a  heavy fine.
In the aftermath of the worst English crowd scenes for years, Millwall  chairman Reg Burr offered to resign and the Football League insisted the  tension-filled promotion play-offs would not be scrapped.
Trouble began even before the match, won 3-1 by Derby, but the most  serious incidents occurred when two pitch invasions, one in each half, halted  play for around 20 minutes.
The first incursion involved only a small number of fans, but between 50  and 100 invaded the pitch in the second half when Derby goalkeeper Martin  Taylor, one of several Derby players who claimed they had punches thrown at  them, was felled by a blow to the ribs.
Derby manager Roy McFarland admitted he took off his two black players,  Paul Williams and Gary Charles, just before the end because he considered them  particular targets for the crowd.
After the game, which saw Derby through to the Wembley play-off final on a  5-1 aggregate, a 1,000-strong mob rioted in the stadium car park and  overturned a BBC vehicle.
Despite his offer to resign, Burr played down the trouble on Thursday. He  said there had been no fighting and it had only invlved a minority of  "mindless idiots".
Burr said the disturbances were down to casual fans rather than Millwall  regulars and described the highly-charged play-offs as "a recipe for violence".
However, Football League spokesman Ian Cotton maintained it was an  isolated incident and said the eight-year-old play off system would remain  unchanged.
Millwall's former ground, The Den, has been closed once in each decade  going back to the 1930s, because of crowd trouble.
Sixteen people were arrested after the match, including a Derby fan at a  London railway station, and seven people were hurt, including six police  officers.
