Erich Honecker, who ruled communist East Germany  for 18 years and built the Berlin Wall, died Sunday of liver cancer, a  spokesperson for the family said. He was 81 years old.
The former East German communist party chief and head of state, who  arrived in Chile in January 1993, died at his home in exile in Santiago.
He led the German Democratic Republic from 1971 to 1989, but resigned in  October 1989 shortly before the Berlin Wall collapsed and fled to Moscow in  March 1991.
Expelled from Moscow in July 1992, he was tried in Berlin for the deaths  of Germans killed attempting to escape to West Germany. As many as 400 people  were killed escaping between 1961 and 1989.
He was freed in 1993 and allowed to go into exile after being diagnosed  with liver cancer.
Honecker never voiced sorrow for the hundreds who were killed while  fleeing to the West or for the millions of lives stifled by the web of  eavesdroppers and hidden microphones that kept him in power.
"Neither ox nor ass can halt the forward march of socialism," Honecker  liked to say to the workers during his trips to factories and collective farms.
While on trial for the deaths of those fleeing East Germany, the former  leader reluctantly admitted that the slain fugitives had died "an unnatural  death."
Reaction from Germany was mixed. "Honecker failed in his political  objectives," said Dieter Vogel, spokesman for the German government.
"The people in Germany and history have turned their back on him," he  said. "His politics inflicted an unheard of suffering on innumerable people in  Germany," he added.
Egon Krenz, who took over from Honecker in East Germany's final days,  asked for understanding. "I ask for a just verdict on his life, his acts and  his failures," he said. Krenz urged people to recall that Honecker had fought  Hitler's rule and spent years in Nazi prisons.
He added that Honecker was not solely responsible for the failures of East  German communism. "There was no power to escape the conditions imposed by the  Cold War and the forced loyalty to the USSR," said Krenz.
Death came for Honecker at 7:00 a.m. in the Santiago neighborhood of Las  Condes, where he lived in a modest house with his wife Margot, said a  spokesperson for the family.
"He was lucid when he died, with Margot at his side," said the family  spokesperson, a member of the Committee of Solidarity with Honecker.
His body will be cremated here Monday and his ashes will be carried back to  Germany in accordance with his final wishes. Vogel said the German government  will not hinder the transfer.
Prior to his release German doctors had predicted he had three to six  months to live. Honecker turned down operations to arrest the cancer.
Honecker was aided in his efforts to emigrate here by Chilean leftists.  More than 5,000 Chilean socialists and communists were granted refuge in East  Germany from the military dictatorship of General Augusto Pinochet in the  1970's. Pinochet ruled Chile with an iron fist from 1973-1990.
"(Honecker) will be remembered by thousands of exiles from Chile and other  Latin American countries who were fleeing from dictatorships and who found in  the German Democratic Republic a second homeland," said Gladys Marin,  secretary general of the Chilean Communist Party.
Honecker's daughter Sonja, who is married to a Chilean, has lived in Chile  since 1989. She was joined by her mother in 1992.
Honecker was born August 25, 1912 into poverty in the Saarland, western  Germany.
