Facing rising calls for action from the public  and Congress, the Pentagon has agreed to carry out a major clinical study of  the mystery illness affecting hundreds of Gulf War veterans.
The symptoms of the so-called "Persian Gulf Syndrome" have included  chronic fatigue, arthritis, insomnia, hair loss, nervous breakdowns,  respiratory problems and diarrhea. But doctors have been unable to trace the  causes of the ailments.
The National Institutes of Health said last month that the ailments could  not be traced to a specific disease or syndrome, but were were a series of  different diseases, some with common symptoms.
While the number of veterans affected is not known, some 20,000 combatants  have complained of health problems they claim are related to their service in  the 1991 conflict.
The problem has been aired at congressional hearings and some have  compared it to the syndrome attributed to the defoliant Agent Orange used in  the Vietnam War.
Some veterans contend the symptoms are the result of exposure to nerve gas  or to pills given to counteract the effects of nerve gas, although military  health officials have denied this.
Other suggested causes are pesticides, desert parasites or chemical or  biological agents released into the atmosphere by bombings or Iraqi weapons  installations.
A series of internal Defense Department studies showed similar symptoms  among soldiers exposed to fumes from oil wells set on fire in Kuwait.
"We have to provide a diagnostic explanation veteran by veteran," said  Stephen Joseph, assistant secretary of defense for health affairs. "We are  obligated to do everything we can do to try to find what the cause of the  disease is."
The four-month studied at an unspecified cost is expected to involve a  detailed examination of all troops who served in the region and have  complained of symptoms.
Dr. Harrison Spencer, director or the Tulane School of Public Health and  Tropical Medicine, has been asked to review plans for the new study, and a  forum of other public health experts will advise officials on the matter.
"This is a very important step forward," said Representative Lane Evans,  chairman of a House Veterans Affairs subcommittee looking into the matter and  a critic of the US administration's handling of the matter.
