French bankers seeking to recover huge debts from  flamboyant soccer boss and self-made millionaire Bernard Tapie on Friday sent  bailiffs into his chic Paris home to assess a collection of 18th century  French furniture, paintings and works of art.
Tapie, president of the recently-relegated football club Olympique  Marseille, was present during the inventory.
The state-owned Credit Lyonnais, which is debt-ridden, is owed a total of  180 million dollars by Tapie, of which 61 million dollars are due immediately.
The bailiffs did not remove the furniture, but Tapie is henceforth unable  to dispose of it.
In a communique Friday, the bank said a March 13 agreement with Tapie for  rescheduling of his debt, with a mortgage on his property, had lapsed.
Speaking in Nancy, eastern France, Tapie denounced Friday's moves as a  political operation aimed at reducing him to poverty. "It will not suffice to  get me out of politics," he said.
The bank communique said Tapie's assets had reduced in value since March  13, following a customs prosecution against the tycoon concerning his luxury  yacht the Phocea and the relegation to the second division of  Olympique-Marseille.
Tapie also faces embezzlement charges in the case of one of his companies,  the weighing machine firm Testut, and has been indicted for fraud and  embezzlement in the accounting of Olympique Marseille.
He has further been charged with complicity in corruption and suborning  witnesses in a match-fixing case involving Marseille and the northern team  Valenciennes.
The series of court cases has not affected 51-year-old Tapie's popularity  or political ambitions. He is heading a left-wing list to the European  parliament in elections on June 12 credited in the polls with at least 10  percent of the votes and also has eyes on the mayor's seat in Marseille.
Minister for urban affairs in the former socialist government, he has been  seen by some as a potential candidate in presidential elections next year to  succeed Francois Mitterrand.
Tapie is believed to be personally liable for his Credit Lyonnais debts  because of the legal status of his Groupe Bernard Tapie.
The bank communique said its contract with Tapie was null and void because  he had not respected a condition to provide valuation by experts of his  furniture and works of art by March 31.
On Friday Tapie said he had scrupulously respected all aspects of his  contract with Credit Lyonnais.
Under the Credit Lyonnais agreement Tapie had five years in which to repay  his debts. The bank obtained an exclusive hold over all of the assets owned by  Tapie and his wife, including property and works of art, to guarantee the  debts, the bank said.
It is anxious to recover its cash after customs authorities this week  demanded 16 million francs (2.7 million dollars) in duties on the Phocea.
The bank also said that Tapie had "personally underwitten" his football  team but that its relegation "worsens its financial outlook."
