The United Nations suspended its operations in  conflict-torn Rwanda on Tuesday after a Senegalese army captain was killed by  a shell in the capital, deputy UN force commander Brigadier Henry Anyidoho  said.
"I have ordered that we suspend all operations immediately until the  situation stabilises," the Ghanaian general said, after Captain Mbaye Diagne  was hit by shrapnel from a shell that landed close to his car in central  Kigali.
The body of Diagne, who was called a "hero" by one colleague for his work  in Kigali, was taken to the airport, which is jointly controlled by UN forces  and Rwandan rebels besieging the capital.
Anyidoho said the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) was to blame for the  attack, which struck near a checkpoint manned by government troops.
"From the information I have received from the scene, the shell came from  the RPF side," he said.
The driver's seat in the car was covered in blood, an AFP reporter on the  scene of the attack said.
Civilian colleagues described the dead captain, the 12th soldier to be  killed in the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda (UNAMIR), as a pillar of the  force.
"If there was a hero in UNAMIR, he was it," one said.
They said Diagne had saved more than 100 lives in Kigali, which plunged  into an ethnic bloodbath like much of the rest of Rwanda after the April 6  death of president Juvenal Habyarimana in a mysterious plane crash.
As a liaison officer moving between different UNAMIR bases, Diagne  travelled all over the embattled city and had investigated reports of the  advance of the RPF and evacuated families trapped in the combat zones, they  said.
Colleagues said that Diagne had deplored the drastic scaling-down of the  UN military presence in Rwanda after the fighting flared and Rwandan  government soldiers killed 10 Belgian peacekeepers on April 7.
As the central African highland nation reverted to civil war and ethnic  massacres which have claimed up to an estimated half a million lives, most of  the UN force of 2,500 was pulled out, leaving 450 men.
The UN Security Council on May 17 authorised, at the request of UN  Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the reinforcement of UNAMIR to 5,500  men at most, but no extra troops have yet arrived.
Diagne, who leaves a wife and two children, arrived in Kigali with a team  from the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) in July last year, a month before  the government and the RPF signed a now defunct peace pact. He stayed on with  UNAMIR.
