Two Rwandan Red Cross workers were killed and  several other people wounded when a shell slammed into a field hospital in  Kigali on Wednesday, an official of the International Committee of the Red  Cross (ICRC) said.
The United Nations meanwhile cancelled its two daily relief flights to  Kigali on Wednesday after a UN plane was hit by a bullet in the Rwandan  capital on Tuesday.
The ICRC opened the hospital last month to ease the strain on Kigali's  overcrowded main hospital, where 30 patients were killed when it was shelled  last week.
Further details of Wednesday's shelling were not immediately available,  the ICRC official said in Nairobi. It was unknown who had fired the shell.
The ICRC is one of the few aid agencies still operating in Kigali, where  rebels are locked in combat with the army.
A UN military spokesman earlier announced the suspension of relief flights  after a bullet fired by a light weapon left a hole in one of the wings of the  Canadian Hercules 1-300 being used in the operation.
He said the incident was not discovered until the plane was inspected on  its arrival back in Nairobi. The bullet must have been fired either when the  plane was landing at Kigali or taking off, he added.
It was not known when the UN Assistance Mission to Rwanda would resume its  flights. The spokesman said the military would be consulting engineers to  decide what repairs the plane needed.
Sporadic shelling shook Rwanda's blood-sodden capital Wednesday despite a  partial truce between the two sides during the visit of a special United  Nations envoy, UN military sources said.
Up to half a million people have been hacked, clubbed, burned or shot to  death in six weeks of frenzied ethnic slaughter in Rwanda, much of it blamed  on beer-swilling militiamen only loosely controlled by the government.
Most of the victims were minority Tutsis and Hutus suspected of supporting  the mainly Tutsi rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front.
Another 500,000 Rwandans, Hutus and Tutsis, have sought refuge in  neighbouring countries.
