The Swiss Sandoz group has offered a  53-percent premium to buy the leading US baby-food group Gerber Products  valuing the company at 3.7 billion dollars in a friendly takeover announced  Monday.
Sandoz had offered to acquire all of the shares in Gerber for 53 dollars  per share which was 53 percent more than the closing price on Wall Street on  Friday, Sandoz said.
The offer would be opened Friday and Sandoz hoped to complete the takeover  within three to six months. The Gerber shares were widely held, mainly by  small shareholders.
Gerber president Alfred Piergallini said in a joint statement that "this  transaction represents exceptional value for our shareholders and is in the  best interests of our customers and associates."
Sandoz president Marc Moret said that he was very satisfied with the deal.  "The transaction furthers our long-term strategy to meet the nutritional needs  of the consumers of today and tomorrow.
"Gerber is a unique company of the highest quality which will fit  perfectly as a cornerstone for this business in North America and complement  our strong nutrition business in Europe.
"We have been searching for, and acquiring, high value-added nutritional  products with market leadership positions to add to our portofollio.
"Gerber's excellent image and exceptional market strength in North America  give us a strong base in child nutrition on which we will expand  internationally."
A Sandoz board member Alexandre Jetzer expressed confidence that the  takeover bid would be successful since it was supported by the board of Gerber.
Jetzer said that Sandoz did not plan to make any changes to the management  of Gerber which had succeeded in improving results consistently during the  last 10 years.
It would be given responsibility for all of the nutritional activities  owned by Sandoz in north America.
He said that Gerber had wanted to merge with Sandoz because of the dangers  if it had remained active mainly in the United States alone.
The takeover would strengthen, and would not dilute, earnings, he said.
Sandoz chief executive officer Rolf Schweizer said: "Gerber's position in  North America strengthens our existing base of nutrition products there. This  geographic balance will provide a platform for dynamic growth.
"Gerber provides synergy for Sandoz with advanced technologies in  processing and packaging which we can apply in Europe and the Far East."
Piergallini, for Gerber, said that his company would have had to invest  heavily for a long time to take its products into international markets.
The statement said that the deal would enable Sandoz to double the sales  of its nutrition division. In the year to March Gerber achieved sales of 1.2  billion dollars and a net profit of 127 million dollars before restructuring  costs.
The Gerber group holds 70 percent of the market for baby food in the  United States. It is also well represented in Mexico, Puerto Rico and in  central America. It employs 12,000 people throughout the world.
Sandoz had sales of 10.3 billion dollars in 1993 and had a net profit of  about 1.2 billion dollars which was 14 percent more than in 1923. Its  nutrition division had sales of 1.2 billion dollars of which 14 percent was  generated in the US market.
Last month the board of Sandoz had said that it expected 1994 to be  another good year. It announced an increase of one percent in sales in the  first quarter compared with the figure for the same period last year.
