A Supreme Court judge has been appointed to start  work as soon as possible as head of a royal commission, some say is two  centuries overdue, investigating corruption in Australia's oldest and biggest  police force.
Attempts by New South Wales police headquarters' officers to get state  Premier John Fahey to rescind the royal commission order and a warning by  Police Commissioner Tony Lauer that it will waste police resources failed to  stop the appointment Friday of Justice James Wood, 53.
Costing 100 million dollars (70 million US), it is the latest in a long  string of judicial inquiries into official corruption, but the first root and  branch probe of a force long suspected of deeply entrenched dishonesty.
Lauer, police chief for three years, will himself be a target after his  "honesty or competence" were challenged in parliament by John Hatton, a  crusading independent MP whose persistent allegations forced the government to  order the commission.
Hatton accused Lauer of compromising corruption investigations as head of  internal affairs, including alleged links between police and murdered  underworld figure, Angelo Duros.
Lauer is also said to have told a "whistleblower" -- a policewoman who  complained about corruption -- she was an outcast.
Another 23 officers, including 10 senior men, have been named by Hatton,  some coming to adverse notice in an intelligence investigation into heroin  trafficking, money laundering, prostitution and car theft.
Lauer denies any impropriety and dismisses suggestions of entrenched  corruption as "figments of political imagination."
Two assistant commissioners are accused of having ordered police  surveillance of three state Labor MPs.
One MP, former state attorney general and now federal adminstrative  services minister Frank Walker, said in an article Sunday that police tried to  smear him and others with false claims of involvement in sex romps with  prostitutes.
Walker said his efforts to weed out corruption and his reforms in areas  such as prostitution, cutting illegal police income, had earned him dangerous  enemies and he had evidence he and other ministers had been put under  surveillance.
"They set up a Swiss bank account to incriminate me and 60,000 dollars was  offered to get dirt on me or frame me," Walker told the Sunday Telegraph.
Among other allegations, the royal commission will be told:
- Police were involved in protecting drug dealers, illegal bookmakers,  prostitutes and practising paedophiles.
- That the US Mafia once bribed a 20-strong squad of detectives to lie  about organised crime in New South Wales.
- That an assistant commissioner leaked information which compromised an  inquiry into police corruption.
- That a former superintendent who was fined 2,000 dollars and discharged  with full superannuation on minor departmental breaches, had been observed  accepting a large amount of money from underworld figure Duros.
- That another superintendent tried to charge and discredit another now  prominent police whistleblower.
- That a superintendent, who headed internal affairs investigations, had  discredited allegations about the involvement of police in two suspicious  deaths and the disappearance of a heroin dealer.
In another article published Sunday, prominent writer turned academic Evan  Whitton said the royal commission was 200 years overdue.
"The corrupt culture was set in concrete by policing authorities who took  over the colony in 1792; they proved to be a gang of organised criminals who  did not shrink from extortion, murder (of Irish political prisoners), and  treason," he wrote.
