A 19-year-old suspect was brought in for questioning  Sunday in connection with an outbreak of anti-foreign violence in the east  GErman town of Magdeburg, authorities said.
Magdeburg prosecutor Rudolf Jaspers did not disclose the identity of the  suspect but said in response to a question on whether the man was an  extremist: "He is not unknown to us."
The violence last Thursday involved gangs of skinheads who banded together  to hunt down foreigners, most of them Africans.
Around 50 youths, armed with sticks and knives, turned on a group of  Africans before launching a full-scale manhunt through the streets. According  to police up to 150 youths took part in the violence, in which three people  were reported injured.
One local television station, citing Magdeburg police chief Antonius  Stockmann, said that the leader of the violence has been identified through a  reliable witness and the prosecutor's office has asked that he be arrested and  charged.
Stockmann added that television footage of the violence has not allowed  authorities to identify other culprits.
Meanwhile one German man injured in the head during the rampage remained  in a coma Sunday.
German authorities have been heavily criticized for their handling of the  violence and public outrage increased after the local prosecutor's office  freed all but one of the 50 arrested, citing lack of evidence.
In response to the public outcry the Christian Democratic Union of  Chancellor Helmut Kohl has called an emergency meeting of the committee on  legislation in the lower house for Monday.
It is proposing that police be given powers to hold suspects in custody  for longer without pressing charges, and stiffer penalties for those convicted  of racist attacks.
But it could run into opposition from the Liberal FDP, which maintains  that existing legislation is sufficient so long as it is firmly implemented.
Meanwhile local Christian and Jewish organisations decided over the  weekend to set up their own citizens' watch groups to protect synagogues and  homes for asylum seekers.
