The Cannes International Film Festival is  not an event one normally associates with crises.
Yet, with only a few days of the world's biggest film fest gone, two of  the films so far shown in competition have focussed on just that -- more  crises of ideological, cultural and ultimately international proportions.
Perhaps it is a coincidence. Perhaps the Russian and Taiwanese films  selected by the organizers of the 47th Film Festival just happened to have  strikingly common themes. Or perhaps it is the time in which we live.
Andrei Konchalovsky's "Kurochka Riaba" (Riaba My Chicken) tells of the  crisis faced by ordinary Russians trying to cope with the realities of the  switch to market economies.
Konchalovsky is quite open about the crisis he is describing in his tale  of Assia, whose life in a small village in the middle of Russia is overturned  by the discovery of a valuable golden egg.
After 70 years of communism, Russians simply do not know how to react to  the pressures which money and personal property bring with them. "Freedom  sometimes bears unexpected fruit," he says.
"Everyone thought that the end of communism, or totalitarianism was  fantastic ... the fall of the Berlin Wall and so on, it provided great hope."  But he added: "Then suddenly it isn't working."
Konchalovsky, who fled his own country for America and has only recently  returned, concedes there is no obvious solution to Russia's dilemma. "I have  no answers, only questions," he says.
The crisis referred to in Taiwanese filmmaker Edward Yang's "Du Li Shi  Dai" (A Confucian Confusion) is more subtle in its manifestations, but in some  ways more pervasive in its consequences.
The film tells the story of a group of 12 former schoolfriends living  hectic professional and romantic lives in Taipei -- but in various states of  dilemma about their relationship with their country's spiritual traditions.
As the title of the film suggests, these dilemmas remain largely  unresolved. And Yang argues that the cultural confusion he portrays is not  limited to Taiwan.
"I don't think its referring just to Taiwan, its referring to Hong Kong,  Korea, Japan and Singapore, all the Confucian-influenced societies," he said  in an interview with AFP.
"There's a dilemma whether you want to do more about your life or whether  you want to accept the intimidating pressure which puts you back in your  place," he said.
"The West hasn't really realized this culture change. Every one of these  states is trying to implement democracy."
In so many ways, these two films are worlds apart. But they nevertheless  have a strikingly common theme: the crisis created by the demise of a cultural  ideology in favour of western-style economic progress.
One could argue that the two filmmakers are describing two entirely  different situations: there is no comparison between the economies, cultures  or societies of downtown Taipei and rural Russia.
One could equally say that one film is talking about the breakdown of a  spiritual culture, the other of an ideological culture.
Yet, whatever their differences, there is no doubt that both films are  vivid documents of the time in which we live.
