For four weeks as spring turned to summer last  year, Australia watched in horror while police unearthed more and more bodies  from shallow graves in woodland south of here.
The Belanglo state forest 100 kilometres (60 miles) from Sydney had become  a serial killer's graveyard and focal point of the biggest investigation in  Australian criminal history -- the hunt for the backpacker murderer.
The investigation led last week to the arrest of Ivan Milat, 49, who was  accused in court Tuesday of being the backpacker murderer. His lawyer said  Milat would strongly deny the charges.
The first victims were two young Englishwomen who vanished on holiday in  April 1992 and whose remains were found at Belanglo in September that year  shrouded with leaves and twigs.
Joanne Walters, 22, is alleged by police to have been gagged, raped and  stabbed to death in a frenzied attack. Her companion Caroline Clarke, 21, had  been stabbed and shot 10 times in the head with a .22.
More than a year later on October 5 1993 police went back to the forest  after a man stumbled across another body while walking his dog near where  Walters and Clarke had been found.
A further corpse -- the fourth -- was found a few hours later nearby.
It was at a spot which police thought accessible only to a four-wheel  drive vehicle.
The two were identified as a young couple from Melbourne James Gibson and  Deborah Everist, both 19, who had also gone missing on a hitchhiking holiday  just after Christmas 1989.
Suddenly, it became obvious that a serial killer, probably with a  four-wheel drive vehicle and an intimate knowledge of the Belanglo state  forest, was stalking and killing visiting backpackers.
Media reports said the bodies had all been shrouded in carefully  constructed and camouflaged coffin-like canopies. Each was said to have been  placed face down and parallel to a body-sized log with hands crossed behind  them, suggesting ritualistic killings.
A reward totalling 700,000 dollars (515,000 US) including a 200,000-dollar  contribution from a Sunday newspaper and 500,000 dollars from the New South  Wales state government was offered for information leading to an arrest.
One of the best lateral thinkers in the New South Wales police department,  Superintendant Clive Small, was appointed to head a well-funded task force  with 26 of the state's best criminal investigators and nine intelligence  analysts armed with some highly sophisticated software and technology.
Up to 350 police assisted by dogs specially trained to find dead bodies  were assigned to a minute, inch-by-inch search of a forest with macabre  sounding landmarks like Executioner's Gap, Sick Man and Kelly's Drop.
A fifth body found on November 1 was identified as belonging to  20-year-old German Simone Schmidl, last seen on January 21, 1991.
Three days later, the sixth and seventh bodies were discovered 55 metres  (yards) apart and about 500 meters ( yards) east of where Schmidl was  discovered.
They were also Germans, Gabor Neugebauer, 21, and Anja Habschied, 20.
According to police evidence tendered in court Tuesday, Habschied's head  had been severed, apparently in one blow and it has not been found.
Neugebauer had been gagged with a piece of cloth stuffed into his mouth,  then shot six times in the head. There was also evidence of strangulation,  police say.
