President Bill Clinton said Thursday  international atomic energy inspectors should be ready to report back soon on  whether North Korea is diverting nuclear fuel.
Clinton said he would temporarily refrain from comment on reports that  North Korea has begun removing spent fuel rods from a reactor at the Yongbyon  nuclear complex in defiance of international warnings.
He said the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors had been  allowed into the Yongbyon facility to make tests and "the better course of  action is for all of us to refrain from any kind of comment until we know what  the facts are."
"They should be in a position to give us a report imminently," Clinton  said.
A three-member team from the Vienna-based IAEA found unspecified evidence  that fuel withdrawal was under way, the Washington Post said Thursday quoting  US and diplomatic sources.
A US official confirmed the report, saying "they've started the process."
The United Nations and the United States had warned Pyongyang not to  remove the fuel rods before IAEA inspectors can check them to see if fissile  material has been diverted to make a nuclear weapon.
An IAEA spokesman in Vienna said Wednesday that the inspectors, who  arrived Tuesday in Pyongyang, had begun their week-long assignment but refused  to provide details.
Sources familiar with a preliminary report filed by the IAEA team told the  Post that defueling at the Yongbyon reactor 90 kilometers (54 miles) north of  Pyongyang was in its early stage, meaning that only a small portion of the  estimated 8,000 plutonium-laden fuel rods had been removed.
However, the report added, no efforts were made by North Korean engineers  to mark or segregate the spent fuel rods for eventual sampling by the IAEA  team.
The UN agency has said that without sampling it would be impossible to  determine whether plutonium has been diverted to a clandestine nuclear arms  program.
North Korea appeared to be on the agenda of two foreign-policy meetings  held by Clinton at the White House on Thursday.
The first meeting was attended by Vice President Al Gore, Defense  Secretary William Perry, national security adviser Anthony Lake, UN Ambassador  Madeleine Albright, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff John Shalikashvili  and CIA director James Woolsey.
The second was attended by the main regional military commanders.
North Korea's continued refusal to abide by the IAEA's non-proliferation  rules has led to international threats of UN sanctions, which in turn prompted  war threats from Pyongyang.
Perry said Wednesday that his government faced "a very substantial  near-term crisis" with North Korea.
