The foreign ministers of Russia, the United States  and five European countries united Friday to put the peace process in  Bosnia-Hercegovina back on track, calling for a four-month ceasefire and  resumption of peace negotiations within two weeks.
They urged the warring parties to reach agreement on the basis of a  European plan for the ethnic division of the former Yugoslav republic,  providing 51 percent of the territory for a Bosnian Croat-Moslem federation  and 49 percent for the Bosnian Serbs.
The Belgrade-backed Serb forces currently hold some 70 percent as a result  their gains in more than two years of war and ethnic cleansing following the  republic's independence.
In a joint declaration, the seven states plus the European Union held out  the prospect of a "phased suspension" of UN-imposed sanctions against Serbia  in return for "good faith" implementation of a peace settlement "that includes  provisions for withdrawal to agreed territorial limits."
But they firmly ruled out as unacceptable any attempt to make sanctions  relief a precondition for the resumption of peace talks.
Inviting the warring parties to begin negotiations within two weeks under  the auspices of the so-called contact group on Bosnia, the ministers  simultaneously instructed the group -- Britain, France, Germany, Russia and  the United States -- to start immediately making preparations to facilitate  this.
(Also represented here Friday were Belgium and Greeece.)
They also "took note" of moves being taken to set up a Bosnian-Croat  federation within the republic of Bosnia-Hercegovina.
Skirting round a recent Bosnian-Croat demand of 58 percent of the total  territory for this entity, the ministers said they believed that "final  arrangements for the federation must provide it with viable, realistic and  reasonable territory consistent with" the Europeans' 51/49 percent formula.
They further demanded that all parties permit unimpeded delivery of  humanitarian aid in accordance with existing agreements, and insisted on the  release of detained members of humanitarian organizations.
Addressing journalists after the six hours of talks, US Secretary of State  Warren Christopher stressed that a Serb attempt to make resumption of peace  talks conditional on a prior lifting of sanctions against the rump Yugoslavia  (Serbia and Montenegro) was "entirely and absolutely unacceptable."
He and European ministers stressed that they realised there remained great  difficulties and obstacles to a solution, but that they were united in their  purpose of reaching a negotiated political settlement.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe, who this week threatened that France  would pull out its UN contingent -- the biggest in Bosnia -- if there was no  solution in sight, issued an appeal to the warring parties, saying: "There is  a chance of peace. Don't let it slip away."
