Moves by the United States and European Union to  cut off Asian nations, particularly China, from western markets, could trigger  an Asian trade bloc, Singapore Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong warned Tuesday.
"An Asian trade bloc is not an option of choice. But it is a viable  option," Goh told a business opportunities conference organised here by the  New York-based Asia Society.
He said both Asia and the West would lose if the United States and the  European Union moved to isolate Asia and slow its economic growth instead of  integrating it into world markets.
Goh's warning came less than three weeks before US President Bill Clinton  is to decide whether to renew China's most favoured nation (MFN) trading  status.
The US has said it will not extend Beijing's MFN status unless China shows  significant overall progress in improving its human rights record.
Washington's position has been criticised by many Asian countries worried  by the political and economic fallout of a non-renewal of China's trade  privileges.
"If the West block the emerging Asian countries, especially China, from  world markets, it will force them to turn inwards. They will be less open and  less cooperative internationally," Goh said.
Goh, a strong advocate of free trade, said the outcome would also be the  same if the North American Free Trade Area (NAFTA) and the European Union  became more inward looking.
"If they do, Asians will have to organise themselves and trade  increasingly among themselves," he said.
Goh said that while Asia's growth "will be slowed" it "will not be  stopped," because the region had sufficient capital and had a higher savings  rate than the rest of the world, adding that isolation would make an Asian  trade bloc a viable option.
Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad has lobbied support for  formation of an economic grouping of East Asia's fastest growing economies,  but the proposal has received limited support from Japan because of  Washington's objection.
Vietnamese Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet, New Zealand Prime Minister Jim  Bolger, Chinese Vice-Premier Li Lanqing and Thai Deputy Premier Amnuay Viravan  are among regional leaders who will address the conference over the next two  days.
