The presidents of Albania and  Macedonia,  Sali Berisha and Kiro Gligorov, agreed to push for greater  bilateral cooperation at a meeting here Sunday.
The two leaders, meeting on the Albanian side of Lake Ohrid, announced  Tirana had proposed Skopje be allowed to unload some 1.5 million tonnes of oil  and one million tonnes of other goods at Albania's Adriatic ports.
Macedonia is presently hamstrung by a Greek-imposed embargo on its  products in a row over the name used by the former Yugoslav rebublic which  Athens insists implies a territorial claim over the Greek province of  Macedonia.
Albania has itself fallen out with the Greeks over the status of Tirana's  Greek minority.
At their meeting, Berisha and Gligorov agreed progressively to end entry  visa requirements. The first people to benefit will be those living in a  swathe of land within 25 kilometres (16 miles) of their common border.
Berisha welcomed Skopje's recent law providing for a new population census  as a "contribution to stability" in Macedonia.
The survey, scheduled between June 21 and July 3, comes at the behest of  the international community and is designed to end quarrels over how many  ethnic Albanians live in Macedonia.
Skopje says some 20 percent of its 2.3 million population is Albanian, but  Tirana says the figure is nearer 50 percent.
Berisha said the census would boost the position of ethnic Albanians  living across the border. He also noted increased use of the Albanian language  in Macedonian public life.
Gligorov said he would conversely like to know how many Macedonians were  living in Albania. Opposition supporters in Skopje put that figure at 350,000,  but the government says there are only between 4,000 and 40,000. He said  clarifying the ethnicity issue would boost relations between both countries.
On Bosnia, Gligorov said both Macedonia and Albania had tried to keep  their distance from the "senseless" carnage, and both should work to ensure  the fighting did not spill over into other parts of the Balkans.
