Top players, preparing for the 1994 French Open  Championships, all agreed that they enjoyed playing clay-court tennis but  admitted: "it's tough."
World number-one Pete Sampras of the United States, fresh from victory in  the Italian Open and chasing a fourth consecutive Grand Slam title and a first  win in the Roland Garros event, admitted: "Clay is certainly the toughest  surface to play on. Sometimes you win but you come off court with the  impression you haven't played very well and that it hasn't been nice tennis  for the public to watch. You have to be willing to stay out there for as long  as it takes."
Sweden's Stefan Edberg, 28, who is hoping to win the only major title  missing from his collection after an eleventh campaign in Paris, said:  "Although I am not considered a clay-court specialist, I like playing on the  surface. It makes you think. You have to be patient and work for every point.  It is probably the sort of tennis the public most likes to see."
Germany's second-ranked Michael Stich was admamant that attacking tennis  could still win slow-court tournaments.
"I remain convinced an attacking 'serve-and-volley' player can win here,"  he said, adding: "Edberg had a chance when he reached the final in 1989. Boris  (Becker) and I have both reached the semi-finals. The main problem for  attacking players is that when you have an off-day it can be far more damaging  on clay than on a faster surface."
Three-times Wimbledon champion Boris Becker (Germany), a finalist at Rome  last week, admitted: "You can win on clay even if you play badly. That's  something you cannot do on grass. But the key to winning on any surface is to  know how to play the important points."
American Andre Agassi, twice a finalist in the event but making a  relatively subdued comeback after a wrist operation at Christmas, said: "It's  a question of adapting physically for clay rather than technically."
Rising teenage star Andrei Medvedev of the Ukraine agreed.
"Clay is the most testing surface of all. Elsewhere you can win points  much quicker. But on clay you have to grind it out. You need to be one hundred  percent fit."
