Indian Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao  pitched his country as a fast-moving, pro-investment place to do business in  an address to US business leaders Monday.
Rao, the first Indian prime minister to visit the United States in seven  years, also vowed that the sweeping economic reforms he began when he took  office three years ago would continue.
He appealed directly to US companies represented at the working lunch --  including AMOCCO, Texas Instruments and EPIC Kellog -- to "invest in India and  be honored partners in India's development."
On Friday India, the second most populated country in the world, announced  it would provide basic telephone services to foreign and domestic private  companies, taking the first step towards private phone networks.
Rao said India had cut through India's maze of regulations and  bureaucracy, liberalised export and import policies, lowered tariffs and  instituted an agressively pro-foreign investment business environment.
He stressed that deregulation meant India's states were able to implement  the central government's decisions more quickly and that the different states  now competed more among themselves.
"Efficiency is the key concept that informs our attitude to business and  industry today," he said.
Later in the week Rao is to address Congress and is expected to discuss a  number of thorny issues with President Bill Clinton in Washington, including  India's ambitious nuclear program.
Rao painted a picture of India as a potential Asian economic tiger, saying  his reforms had brought in considerable new foreign investment, lower  inflation, more exports and a build up of foreign exchange reserves.
"There is no desire to avoid competition," he said.
The opening up of the telecommunications market aims to meet an  eight-billion-dollar shortfall in the nearly 14 billion dollars required to  modernise India's antiquated telephone system and provide a phone on demand to  its citizens by 1996.
India currently has 0.8 telephones per 100 people, with three million  people on a waiting list up to five years long and which is growing at the  rate of 15-20 percent a year.
Major US telecom firms such as US West and Motorola have been eagerly  waiting to enter the huge Indian market of nearly 900 million people.
Rao left Houston for Boston late Monday, where he will deliver a lecture  at Harvard, before travelling to Washington.
