The US Federal Reserve raised two key interest  rates Tuesday in a widely-expected move, saying it was acting to keep  inflation down and support US economic growth.
The US central bank raised the overnight interbank rate half a percentage  point from 3.75 percent to 4.25 percent and its discount rate from 3.0 to 3.5  percent.
It was the fourth rise in the overnight rate for loans between commercial  banks since February, but the first for the discount rate -- the interest the  Fed charges for direct loans to banks -- in five years.
The Fed said the move was "designed to maintain the favorable trend in  inflation and thereby sustain the economic expansion."
"As always, the Fed will continue to monitor economic and financial  developments to judge the appropriate stance of monetary policy," the Fed said  in a statement after a meeting of its Open Market Committee which sets US  monetary policy.
The meeting had been widely expected to raise short-term rates, with the  only real question the scale of the overnight rate increase.
Analysts were divided over whether the Fed would go for its fourth quarter  of a point rise since February, or push up both the interbank rate and the  discount rate by a full half percentage point.
The move was well-received on the financial markets, with the average  interest rate on 30-year Treasury bonds, the market bellwether in a sector  highly sensitive to inflationary fears, dropping back to 7.39 percent after  the announcement from 7.45 percent earlier in the day.
On Wall Street the Dow Jones industrial index was up more than 30 points a  few minutes after the news at 3,702 points, compared to a rise of around 10  points before the announcement.
The rate increase was also good news for the dollar, which rose to 1.6705  German marks from 1.6645 earlier in the day.
The Fed has maintained since announcing its first increase in short-term  rates in five years on February 4 that it was acting to forestall any  inflationary pressure in the growing economy, emphasizing there was no  indication of inflation in current economic conditions.
But that first increase in the Federal Funds rate to 3.25 percent spooked  the markets anyway, triggering a selloff in stocks and bonds.
The credit tightening ended a five-year period of low interest rates which  significantly fueled the strong US economic recovery.
In addition to upsetting the markets, the Fed move provoked a sharp  reaction from the White House, which feared that tighter credit would stifle  the economic recovery.
But President Bill Clinton changed his tune Tuesday, shortly before news  of the latest rate rise, with a statement that short-term interest rates could  be raised without slowing down the US economy.
"There is clearly some room for short-term interest (rates) over the rate  of inflation that won't slow down our economic growth," he told reporters at  the White House.
Clinton's remark was clearly aimed at reassuring the financial markets'  fears that higher rates will throttle economic growth.
"Let's get the fundamental facts here," he said. "We have more jobs, lower  inflation and a lower deficit, and expectations for high growth this year,  good growth."
Business leaders' groups and Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said last  week they expected the US economy to grow by more than three percent this  year. The government had forecast growth of three percent in January.
