Angola's rebel UNITA said Monday that a weekend  attack on its stronghold of Huambo by government troops further blocks the  road to peace currently barred by disagreements over power-sharing at talks  here.
"This attack is a clear message to us that something is missing in terms  of political will to achieve a good result at these talks," UNITA spokesman  Jorge Valentim told AFP here.
"The more they (government) attack, the more they complicate the climate  at the negotiations because they should not expect that because they are  beating us, this will force us to be flexible," he said.
Valentim said the bombing of the central highlands town of Huambo,  Angola's second city and the headquarters of the National Union for the Total  Independence of Angola (UNITA), left 15 people dead and 38 wounded.
"They will not get a good result and more people will realise that there  is nothing being achieved here," said Valentim declining to elaborate.
In a clear indication that something is amiss at the talks here, Valentim  was not even sure on how Monday's negotiations would be conducted.
"I am not sure whom we will be meeting today, whether it's the government  or the (UN) mediation I do not know," he said.
Both UNITA and government negotiators were in Angola last week for  consultation with their top leaders after reaching hitches in their second  attempt at national reconciliation and the rebel movement's participation in a  future government of national unity.
Last Thursday, UNITA said the question of power-sharing lacked substance  and warned government to stop "playing around with mere words on the matter".
The two civil war enemies met Thursday and Friday without their United  Nations minders to try to lay ground for a full resumption of negotiations on  the matter but nothing tangible has come out.
Both the UN mediator, Alioune Blondin Beye, and the government delegation  continue to remain mute on the what is happening in Lusaka.
The talks which began in November last year have already resolved the  military and legal aspects of the peace package but the outstanding political  issues are still barring an end to the war that began before independence from  Portugal in 1975.
UNITA and the formerly Marxist government in Luanda signed a peace deal in  May 1991, but renewed conflict broke out after the rebels lost Angola's first  democratic general elections in September 1992.
Chief among the three remaining political issues is that of government and  local administration posts UNITA has been offered at the talks.
UNITA, which from the outset had hinted at its wish to take some of the  key posts such as defence, interior, finance and information, has only been  offered four portfolios in commerce, health, tourism and material for  construction - a ministry which was created at the talks to accommodate the  rebel movement.
In local administration, out of the 18 provinces, UNITA has only been  given three, among which its Huambo stronghold is not included.
The government is insisting that UNITA should accept its legitimacy and  right to govern, in the light of the outcome of the September 1992 poll, and  therefore accept whatever posts it is given.
The incumbent Jose Eduardo dos Santos beat UNITA leader Jonas Savimbi in  presidential elections, but fell just short of the majority needed to avoid a  second run-off round. This never took place.
