Vietnam's fight against inflation will be the focus  of economic policy to avoid overheating that could send market reforms veering  off course, a top official told the opening session of the National Assembly  Thursday.
Deputy Prime Minister Phan Van Khai promised lawmakers that the government  would keep a tight grip on monetary policy and would take steps to limit the  circulation of foreign currency, particularly the dominant US dollar.
"The government is in the process of changing the regulation mechanisms  for foreign currencies to stabilise exchange rates and limit the use of the  dollar in the local market," said Khai, the right-hand man of Prime Minister  Vo Van Kiet and a force behind economic policies.
"We must be extremely careful in our regulation of the money supply and  avoid any large fluctuations in the prices of goods, services, gold and the  dollar," he said, adding that import and export regulations needed to be  reformed as part of price controls.
The government estimates 500 million dollars are circulating illegally in  the Vietnamese economy and says it wants to move back towards the use of the  local currency.
Inflation, and the possibility of its breeding social discontent, has  become the great fear of the Vietnamese government, which has managed to  wrestle the figure down from 67.5 percent in 1991 to 5.4 percent so far this  year.
Khai called for a speeding up of economic and administrative reforms,  saying that they had been too slow so far and could result in stagnation of  the economy.
Vietnam was facing problems mobilising capital that was needed to develop  infrastructure and reform ailing state firms, Khai said.
Deputies are to discuss a bill to encourage domestic investment during the  month-long parliamentary session in the hope the government will be able to  mobilise some of the 45 to 55 billion dollars it says it requires for  development up to 2000.
Stock and bond markets are under discussion as a way of luring money out  from under Vietnamese mattresses, where most people keep their savings as  suspicions continue about the country's inefficient banking sector.
Khai painted a less than rosy picture of Vietnam's economic situation,  saying more order was needed in fiscal policy, the state sector and the  country's growing private sector, while the administration required a thorough  overhaul.
The number of reported cases of smuggling rose three percent in the first  four months of this year and the value of confiscated goods was up 25 percent,  Khai said, without specifying exact numbers.
A government campaign against bureaucratic inefficiency and wastage could  save around 130 million dollars in the first half of this year, Khai said.
But regulations for foreign investors, including land, construction and  tax codes, still needed to be simplified and waiting periods for licenses cut,  he said.
Among the six laws expected to be passed during the session is a labour  code aimed at simplifying procedures for foreign employers and giving workers  the right to strike for the first time.
In his report on foreign affairs, Khai warned of "worrying developments"  in neighbouring Cambodia and expressed concern about recent moves by China to  consolidate its claims over the disputed Spratly Islands in the South China  Sea.
He also said Vietnam was ready for membership in the Association of  Southeast Asian Nations and for closer ties with the United States, signalling  a continuation of Hanoi's diplomatic efforts to emerge completely from decades  of isolation.
