Three young East Timorese and an Indonesian are  being detained and tortured by President Suharto's elite guard over the death  of one of its commanders in Jakarta, East Timor resistance sources said Monday.
The CNRM (National Council of Maubere Resistance) released a statement to  AFP in an attempt to draw attention to the plight of the detainees.
The East Timorese resistance group said a fifth youth who acknowledges  responsibility for his part in what was described as the accidental death of  an off-duty Presidential Guard officer is in hiding.
But their statement, distributed by the the East Timor News Agency (ETNA),  added that he was willing to surrender and face justice if promised a fair  trial.
The incident was said to have happened outside "a gambling location" at a  brothel where the five had been forced to take jobs as bodyguards after going  to Jakarta a year ago on the unfulfilled promise of jobs.
"East Timorese students in Jakarta appeal to Presidential Guard members to  act in accordance with their professional oath and protect the people,  punishing wrongdoers in accordance with the laws of Indonesia," the statement  said.
"Those who protect the President should excel at protecting people, not at  torturing them."
The statement said the five young men were promised jobs in Jakarta by the  Indonesian Department of Labour and President Suharto's daughter Tutut.
The Presidential Guard commander was said to have been "hired by someone"  to expel the East Timorese men and went in civilian clothes to the centre  where he assumed that "as is usual in Indonesia, the civilians would be  frightened by his presence and follow his orders to leave."
Instead, the bodyguards resisted and attempted to chase the commander  away, "killing him in the ensuing scuffle."
Four, named as Hercules of Ainaro, Duarte of Lospalos, Domingos of Ermera  and Salah from the Indonesian island of Flores had been captured and were  being kept at a special closed prison at the Presidential Guard headquarters.
"Carlos is in hiding, a fugitive from the Presidential Guard, who are  quietly searching for him, aiming to keep the incident from being known by  their military superiors or the Indonesian press," the dispatch said.
"Carlos regrets the incident and is willing to be tried. However, he is  critical of the behaviour of the Presidential Guard members who were only  seeking retribution and not the enforcement of law when capturing Hercules and  the others.
"They have detained them in secret, without police involvement or resort  to legal process.
"It can be assumed with all certainty that the four captured are being  subject to horrifying tortures by the Presidential Guards.
"From the experience of many students who have been subject to military  police tortures in Dili, these troops are extremely harsh in their tortures in  defiance of legal procedures."
East Timorese students appealed to Amnesty International and other groups  to help protect fellow East Timorese "from the vindictiveness of the  Indonesian military", the statement said.
Sydney-based CRNM spokeswoman Margherita Tracanelli who released the  statement said it was based on information from sources which were considered  utterly reliable.
Indonesia is increasingly sensitive to criticism over its treatment of  inhabitants of the former Portuguese colony annexed by Jakarta in 1976.
The government refutes claims by East Timor groups that tens of thousands  of people have been killed since.
