China said Friday it was making great efforts to  improve protection for intellectual property rights by strengthening  supervision and drawing up laws to ensure punishment of violators.
"China attaches great importance to intellectual property protection work  and is improving the legislation in this regard," Justice Minister Xiao Yang  told an international symposium here, saying such moves were vital to "ensure  the normal operation of the socialist market economy."
While acknowledging the occurrence of rights violations, Xiao said China  was "in the process of making its own protection work meet international  standards."
"Law enforcement is, on the whole, good," he said.
Xiao's remarks come amid a row over copyright protection between China and  the United States, whose relations are already seriously strained by the  controversy over renewal of Beijing's most-favoured-nation (MFN) trade status.
At the end of April, Washington -- apparently seeking to ensure a  separation of the MFN and property rights rows -- set a deadline of June 30  for China to take effective measures to combat violations of US patents and  copyrights or face retaliation.
US President Bill Clinton must decide on MFN renewal, which he has linked  to human rights improvements, by June 3.
While foreign countries welcomed the promulgation in 1991 of China's first  copyright law, many have criticized the authorities here for continuing to  turn a blind eye to violations and failing to extract sufficient compensation  in cases that are brought to court.
Xiao said law enforcement organs are being strengthened to tackle  copyright abuse, while supervision of enforcement by local governments and  State Council departments was also being improved.
Supervision would be carried out at irregular intervals and focus on major  cases, the official said.
In addition, he said, China would publish a decree giving customs officers  at national borders "a still bigger role in intellectual property protection  and in preventing the entrance and exit of such goods."
