Russian football chiefs appear to have quashed the  revolution which was threatening their World Cup hopes.
Fourteen of their best players had demanded the resignation of coach Pavel  Sadyrin, bigger World Cup bonuses and hot water at their training centre in  Tarasovka.
They got the hot water and a 105,000-dollar World Cup winning bonus, but  Sadyrin, accused of being old-fashioned, remains firmly at the helm.
Five of the 14 rebels, who complained to Boris Yeltsin last December,  defected in April and Sadyrin now believes the rest will toe the party line.
"We seem to be near to a solution," he said. He plans to renew his appeal  for solidarity at a training camp at the end of the month.
He will split his squad into A and B sides for matches against Slovakia in  Moscow on May 28 and 29 before naming his squad for the United States.
Ringleader Igor Shalimov, whose loss of form cost him his place in the  Inter Milan side which won the UEFA Cup, may be the only man left behind.
Aleksandr Mostovoy, who plays for Caen in France, and Manchester United  winger Andrei Kanchelskis have already talked to Sadyrin.
The problems began when the Russian federation dismissed Anatoly  Bychovets, who coached a Commonwealth of Independent States side in the 1992  European championships.
Shalimov believes Bychovets was sacked because he had supported the  players in a dispute with the national federation over bonuses.
The rebels continually tried to get him reinstated until he was taken on  by the South Korean World Cup squad in February.
Internal strife is a familiar problem. Politics can generally be blamed  for the old Soviet Union's often disappointing performances at big events and  the European Championship of 1960 is their only major honour.
Bad luck has also played its part.
A vibrant Soviet side looked capable of living with Argentina in Mexico in  1986 but they never got the chance to take on Diego Maradona. Swedish referee  Erik Fredriksson failed to spot two suspiciously-looking offside goals which  allowed Belgium through 4-3 after extra-time in the quarter-finals.
So it was the Belgians who played Argentina in the semis and lost to a  piece of Maradona magic.
Two years later the Soviets gained some compensation by reaching the  European Championship final in Munich, but were no match for the Holland of  Ruud Gullit and Marco Van Basten.
