Children are being subjected to ritualistic torture  by satanists, sometimes in churches and child care centres, according to an  official government report.
The New South Wales Sexual Assault Committee said it had heard evidence of  children being beaten, cut, locked in cages or cupboards, given electric  shocks, submerged in water or deprived of food and sleep.
Sometimes, they were subjected to psychological abuse involving  mind-control techniques or the use of mind-altering drugs.
"This psychological abuse leaves the victim with a profound terror of cult  members and of the evil spirits cult members can command," the committee said  in its report "Ritual Abuse: Information for Health and Welfare Professionals".
Completed last year, the report was released then only to professionals in  the field, but it has come to light following publication in the Medical  Observer magazine this month.
Although the ritualistic abuse it describes has often been reported with  scepticism in Australia and elsewhere over many years, the committee is the  first official body here to acknowledge it as a genuine and serious problem.
The Australian Broadcasting Corporation recently showed an interview with  a woman who had survived ritualistic torture as a child in Germany and who had  spoken to many victims who suffered similarly in Australia.
During a two-day sexual assault phone-in in November, 1992, 17 callers  reported abuse involving sadistic practices, the committee said.
It concluded that such abuse could occur in covens, sects or cults.
But sometimes the perpetrators appeared to be operating within mainstream  churches without the churches' knowledge, and at other times as part of  organisations such as scout groups and children's camps.
"There have also been reported cases of organised, ritualised, sadistic  child abuse in day care and similar settings both in Australia and overseas,"  said the report.
"In any or all of these settings, the perpertrators may include parents  and other family members, or baby sitters, neighbours and other acquaintances."
The committee said survivors' had given horrific accounts of "repeated,  painful, sadistic and humiliating assaults usually carried out in a group  setting."  It said "symbolic objects" such as crucifixes or wands, or weapons  such as knives or guns had been used.
Workers dealing with the cruelty reports felt overwhelmed with shock,  disbelief, fear, anger and powerlessness compounded compounded for some "by an  element of fear at the supernatural undertones."
But the committee advised workers not be distracted by the supernatural  aspect, adding that the abuse involved criminal acts and should be seen as  part of the human capacity for cruelty.
A senior hospital pyschiatrist, Doctor James Quinn, reported to the  committee that he had worked with 25 ritual abuse survivors over the past  three years and thought thought the matter was cause for concern.
Quinn said in a weekend interview: "It is very difficult to prove these  things, and it doesn't really matter from a therapist's point of view - I'm  here to help people who are distressed.
"But from society's point of view, I'd be left with substantial discomfort  and concern."
He said many psychiatrists did not believe such abuse really occurred,  arguing a case had never been proven in the courts and the victims often  suffered personality disorders so could not be believed.
