When Armando Calderon is sworn in as  president of El Salvador Wednesday he will inherit an unfinished peace process  with leftist rebels, but a fairly stable economy.
The outgoing president, Alfredo Cristiani, will be remembered as "the  president of peace" for the January 1992 peace accords that ended a bloody,  12-year civil war with the leftist Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front  (FMLN).
But several conditions in the UN-brokered agreements have yet to be  fulfilled.
Less than half the 41,000 former guerrillas have received plots of land  promised them in the agreements, said Antonio Alvarez, director of the FMLN,  which was reborn a political party.
Around 21,000 former rebel fighters must be awarded their land by April  1995, according to a new timetable.
A month prior to that dateline, the new National Civil Police should have  replaced the discredited National Police, linked in the past with human rights  violations.
Other clauses set out in the 1992 agreements call for reorganizing the  ministries of interior and public security, reforming the judicial system,  helping former guerrilla fighters get reabsorbed into civilian life, and  budgeting funds for war cripples.
Cristiani and his outgoing cabinet get overall good grades from the  Jesuit-run Central American University Jose Simeon Canas (UCA) and other  observers, above all in its management of the economy.
However, a UCA editorial in the Proceso weekly said, "he leaves government  with some important commitments behind schedule, unfulfilled and twisted in  meaning."
"If he had fulfilled the agreements (with the FMLN), Cristiani could have  been one of the most important presidents in the modern history of our  country," UCA said, recalling that the guerrillas and the international  community also had a role in the peace accords.
But the Jesuits and other observers agreed that Cristiani's administration  handled the economy "relatively well," and improved the country's severely  war-damaged infrastructure.
During his five-year mandate, Cristiani sought economic stability,  sustained growth and establishing a market economy.
Economists note with satisfaction that inflation will drop from last  year's 12.1 percent to an estimated 8.0 percent this year, while economic  growth in 1993 was close to five percent.
Nevertheless, activists on the left argue that the government's policies  have had little impact on the poverty in which more than half the country's  five million Salvadorans live.
Calderon, a 45 year old lawyer who leads the right-wing Nationalist  Republican Alliance (ARENA), was elected to a five year term April 24 in the  second round of El Salvador's presidential elections.
Continuity from one ARENA administration to another seems assured under  Calderon, whose cabinet is a slightly reconfigured version of Cristiani's  cabinet.
