Bernard Tapie brushed off Wednesday a new bid by  French justice to strip him of his parliamentary immunity and vowed not to be  deterred from his campaign for a seat in the European parliament.
The self-made millionaire and owner of the Olympic Marseille football  club, told journalists he would make no further comment on his long-running  financial and judicial woes until after the European elections on June 12.
"All the judicial attacks and prosecution cases laid against me are solely  designed to stop me speaking out" on Europe, said Tapie who heads a Leftist  Radicals (MRG) list and is virtually certain to win a seat in Strasbourg.
On Tuesday, investigating judge Eva Joly called for Tapie's parliamentary  immunity to be lifted so he could answer possible charges of massive tax  evasion relating to his luxury yacht Phocea.
Magistrates suspect Tapie of evading tax by declaring the 74-meter Phocea  to be a commercial vessel while reserving it for his personal use.
It is the third time in less than a year that magistrates have asked  parliament to lift Tapie's immunity - a record under the Fifth Republic.
Tapie has already been charged in three other affairs and also owes 1.3  billion francs (230 million dollars) to the state-owned Credit Lyonnais bank.
In December he was charged with embezzlement in a case involving one of  his companies, the weighing machine firm Testut.
In March he was indicted for fraud and embezzlement in the accounting of  the OM soccer club and in February he was charged with being an accessory to  corruption and attempts to bribe a witness in a case of alleged match-fixing  in May 1993 with the northern team Valenciennes.
OM were relegated to the second division as a result and face deep  financial trouble, notably because Tapie personally guaranteed their debts.
Last week Credit Lyonnais said Tapie had failed to comply with an  agreement to repay 350 million francs of his debt to the bank, and sent  bailiffs to take an inventory of Tapie's assets at his Paris home.
Tapie, whom critics brand a "rabble-rouser", has rarely been out of the  headlines since entering politics encouraged by President Francois Mitterrand.
He was elected to parliament triumphantly in March in the Bouches du Rhone  region round Marseille in spite - or perhaps because - of all his judicial  problems which some Marseille voters charged was all a "plot against OM"
In public Tapie's fellow MRG members have avoided outright criticism of  their number one candidate. "You don't throw stones at your party at election  time," one veteran said.
But MRG militants make no secret of their dislike of Tapie's style.
Former party national secretary Francois Doubin, who pulled out after  Tapie took over, said Tapie's campaign speeches had nothing to do with Europe.
He said at one meeting in Toulouse Tapie spoke about the day's football  matches while at a meeting in Paris, Tapie proclaimed that "unemployment  should be made illegal" but offered no concrete proposals to create jobs.
"Where's Europe in that," Doubin said.
Justice Minister Pierre Mehaignerie on Wednesday said there was nothing  political in the attacks on Tapie. "The law is the same for everyone and Mr.  Tapie must be treated like any other citizen," he said.
The MRG is credited with between seven and 10 percent in the European poll.
