Baltic countries are expected to appoint a  regional human rights commissioner to look after the rights of ethnic  minorities at a meeting taking place here on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Diplomatic sources said the foreign ministers from the 10 members of the  Baltic Council were expected to accept Russian demands for a regional watchdog  to protect the rights of ethnic Russian minorites in Estonia and Latvia.
Roughly 30 percent of Estonia's population and slightly more of Latvia's  are of Russian origin.
The idea is now supported by all the ten Baltic states, namely: Estonia,  Denmark, Finland, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Russia and  Sweden.
However Russians and Estonians are at odds about the role of the future  "Commissioner of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights" - his official  title.
At the Estonian foreign ministry officials said the commissioner would not  be "mandated to deal with national minorities and should not duplicate the  work of the CSCE High Commissioner on Minorities" - a reference to the  Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
But if the commissioner were mandated to do so nevertheless, the Estonians  say he would also be entitled to look into the problems of Russia's own  national minorities.
Alar Olljum, a senior Estonian foreign ministry official, said the Komis,  a 400,000-strong community of Finno-Ugric origin in Russia's Arctic region,  had already asked for the commissioner to take up their complaints.
The two-day Baltic foreign ministers meeting opening here Tuesday  afternoon, will be preceded by a meeting between Russian Foreign Minister  Andrei Kozyrev and Estonian President Lennart Meri.
Meri's aides said it was hoped the meeting would help revive stalled talks  on the withdrawal from Estonia of 2,500 Russian soldiers stationed there.
The Estonian leader hinted last week that most of the 10,500 retired  Russian soldiers living in Estonia would be allowed to stay.
Moscow has made its military withdrawal conditional upon Estonia providing  guarantees on the social welfare of retired Russian troops.
Also on the agenda of the Baltic Council is a plan for a motorway, to be  called the "Via Baltica," from Helsinki to Warsaw and a project to link up the  electricity grids of states round the Baltic Sea.
Estonia is keen to discuss the safety of nuclear installations in the  region and to speed up the dismantling of the nuclear reactors at the former  Soviet Palkiski military base 30 kilometers (20 miles) south west of Tallinn.
Leon Brittan, deputy president of the European Commission in charge of  external trade, will be there to outline the European Union's programme of  assistance to the Baltic states.
