A UN team left the embattled Rwandan capital Kigali  Tuesday for the town of Kabgayi to investigate reports that 500 people were  massacred there in a new atrocity in the country's bloodbath, a UN official  said.
"We are appalled to have received a report from aid agencies that 500  people were massacred at Kabgayi three days ago," UN military spokesman Major  Jean-Guy Plante said. "We are trying to verify those reports."
Two UN military observers despatched to the town, 50 kilometres (30 miles)  southwest of the capital, were to report back later in the day, Plante said.
Meanwhile sporadic machinegun and small arms fire was heard in Kigali,  where government troops are fighting rebels of the Rwandan Patriotic Front.
After a night of heavy mortar and artillery fire, the UN Assistance  Mission in Rwanda (UNAMIR) pursued efforts to evacuate civilians trapped in  the capital to safer areas behind the front lines.
"The evacuation of people from the Mille Collines Hotel and Amahoro  stadium is continuing," Plante said, "but this morning the United Nations  heard that there are a number of refugees in the Amahoro Stadium, which is in  rebel-held territory, who do not want to go to the government side."
The Amahoro stadium filled up with refugees from the fighting as Rwanda  plunged into bloodshed after president Juvenal Habyarimana was killed in a  suspected rocket attack on his plane on April 6. Many of the refugees come  from the Hutu majority, while the RPF is mainly formed of the minority Tutsis.
Hutu extremist militias have slain hundreds of thousands of Tutsis and  moderate Hutus, while the RPF has also been accused of atrocities.
Kabgayi is close to Gitarama, where a self-proclaimed all-Hutu interim  government set up its headquarters after the president's death. It houses a  Catholic mission now holding some 30,000 refugees and the International  Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has set up a hospital there.
According to missionaries and medical staff working at Kabgayi, people die  each day in the various camps in the region. One camp is home to 14,000  people, three-quarters of them Tutsis.
Last week, a woman and a child were shot dead and five other people  wounded when unidentified gunmen attacked them in the night.
Witnesses also told AFP that armed men in military uniform and in civilian  clothes adbucted refugees, who were never seen again.
The displaced Tutsis in Kabgayi subsist in deplorable conditions, many  without a roof over their heads and short of food. They live in the large  courtyard of the mission school, surrounded by barbed wire, and do not venture  out for fear of being massacred.
On Monday, Rwandan rebel and army commanders, meeting face to face at the  Amahoro Hotel in Kigali, agreed to allow the evacuation of civilians from the  capital and to resume UN-brokered ceasefire talks Thursday.
At a joint news conference after five hours of talks, rebel and government  negotiators blasted each other for reneging on previous accords, but announced  that they had agreed that "people must be free to move."
Colonel Frank Mugambage, representing the RPF, demanded an end to "planned  massacres perpetrated by people in power," which he said were still going on,  before entering substantive ceasefire negotiations.
But Brigadier-General Marcel Gatsinzi, deputy armed forces chief, rejected  responsibility for the bloodbath, though he said some soldiers may have  committed "abuses."
