Southeast Asia's booming economies must resist  western demands to improve workers wages and welfare benefits in return for  more trade, Singapore deputy Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said Monday.
Lee told labour ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations  (ASEAN) that developing countries should determine the pace at which workers'  benefits evolve.
With criticism of labour tactics in some ASEAN countries the ministers are  expected to issue a strong statement on Tuesday rejecting pressure from the  United States and some European Union members to include social clauses,  spelling out workers rights, in future trade agreements.
"We cannot make changes to suit other's standards," Lee said, opening the  biennial meeting of labour ministers from Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the  Philippines, Singapore and Thailand.
While social clauses are seen as a strong weapon to help poorly paid  workers and stop forced and child labour in some Third World nations, many  developing countries see them as disguised protectionism.
ASEAN officials say the industrialised nations' new focus on labour  conditions is aimed at eroding their competitiveness by forcing them to raise  wages to levels in developed nations.
At talks in Washington last week senior ASEAN officials told their  American counterparts that they opposed any link between welfare and human  rights to trade.
"We should prefer that there was no linkages" between social matters and  human rights, said Lim Jock Seng, Brunei's foreign affairs permanent  secretary, after the Washington talks.
Lee said that while some advocates of social clauses were genuinely  concerned about workers' welfare, a greater concern was to ensure that workers  in developed countries cope with competition from developing nations.
"Such supposedly high standards will have practical consequences which are  quite the opposite of the noble goals they profess to promote," he said.
ASEAN officials have warned that higher wages and increased welfare could  force up costs, lead to a drop in foreign investment and bring higher  unemployment.
Singapore Labour Minister Lee Boon Yang said industrial nations' economic  problems could be traced to unrealistic and inflexible labour laws, generous  welfare and minimum standards.
"It would be unfair and unreasonable to demand such standards for  developing countries when these very standards have led to economic malaise in  the developed countries," Lee said.
