Key Japanese banks involved in the Eurotunnel  project are overcoming initial reluctance and agreeing to provide new funds,  opening the way for an overall agreement within the next two days, banking  sources here said on Thursday.
About 35 Japanese banks are involved and represent the biggest single  group in the banking syndicate. But they had been the most reticient to  participate in the operation to raise about 700 million pounds (1.25 billion  dollars), the sources said.
However the biggest of these Japanese banks were now giving their  agreement, they said.
This new loan would in turn open the way for the launch at the beginning  of June of an operation to raise a similar amount in new capital. That  operation is to be completed by the beginning of July.
Japanese banks hold 23 percent of debts of eight billion pounds (12  billion dollars) owed by Eurotunnel.
"Within the next 48 hours at least 600 million pounds, or the minimum  necessary amount, will be obtained and maybe even the remaining 100 million  pounds which are merely optional," one banker said.
Consequently Eurotunnel would be able to increase its capital with  preferential subscription rights. The amount for this had been set initially  at 700 million pounds.
On Tuesday shareholders increased the amount of shares that might be  issued in a forthcoming rights issue, from 192 million to a maximum of 342  million.
The new shares were expected to be offered at a discount of 20-25 percent.  The price on Thursday was 36.50 francs, and on this basis the capital increase  could total 9.5 billion francs (1.68 billion dollars).
But banking sources said that the size of the issue would depend on the  interest shown by the market.
Stock market investors remain lukewarm towards the shares which continue  to be treated in the light of interest rates. The increase in long-term US  rates has depressed the price. The sources said that the price should reflect  the commercial outlook for the company which was good in the long term.
Eurotunnel, which has said that it does not expect to pay a dividend  before 2003, has estimated that it will achieve net income of 5.139 billion  francs in 1995 and 7.19 billion francs in 1996.
