Russia's imperialist past greeted  Prince Charles on Monday as he began an historic three-day visit to Saint  Petersburg by inspecting the tombs of the Romanov Czars, who were related by  blood to the British royal family.
But the prince, the first British royal to visit the former Russian  imperial capital in 100 years, played down the symbolic importance of the  encounter, spending only a short time in front of the graves of Peter the  Great, Paul I and Alexander I.
Preferring to focus on the practical aspects of his visit, the heir to the  British throne, who made no comment to the press on his arrival here Monday,  was joined by a delegation of some 200 businessmen from his Business Leaders  Forum.
Launched 10 years ago to support private entreprise in eastern Europe's  fledgeling market economies, the Forum is advising Saint Petersburg on ways to  develop tourism and preserve its cultural heritage.
In a message before his departure from London, Prince Charles said the  "political and social map of ... the former Soviet Union has changed  dramatically.
"All of us have an immense interest in making sure that new-found freedom  and market economies are able to grow on a sound and sustainable basis."
Driven to Saint Petersburg's Peter and Paul fortress in a Zil limousine,  the prince spent his first few hours visiting the site, where the first stone  was laid in May 1703 to found the city.
An ardent supporter of traditional architecture, he plied his hosts with  questions on the the renovation of the fortress' St Peter and St Paul church,  where all but one of the Romanovs are buried.
The exception is Russia's last Czar, Nicholas II, who was overthrown and  murdered along with his family by the Bolsheviks in the Urals town of  Yekaterinburg in 1918.
Their remains, discovered three years ago, are due to be reinterred in the  church.
Saint Petersburg mayor Anatoly Sobchak confirmed to the prince that the  transfer would probably take place this autumn.
Nicholas's marriage to the Empress Alexandra in 1894 was the occasion for  the last visit by members of the British royal family to the city.
On Tuesday, the prince is due to visit the Piskarevskoye cemetery to pay  homage to the victims of the Nazi siege of the city during World War II.
He is also scheduled to visit the city hall, the British consulate opened  at the end of 1993, and a hospital modernised with the help of the Forum.
The prince's mother, Queen Elizabeth II, is to visit Russia this autumn as  a guest of President Boris Yeltsin.
