Rios, with shoulder-length jet black hair tucked into a cap, and an  ear-ring sparkling in his right ear, admitted after the match that he was an  unconditional fan of Andre Agassi.
But he paid a warm tribute to Sampras.
"He keeps the pressure on you all the time," he said. "It was a great  experience to play him."
Sampras, who arrived in the French capital on the wave of five consecutive  tournament wins, now plays Paul Haarhuis of the Netherlands who beat Sweden's  Lars Jonsson in a five-set thriller.
The American could then face in-form Dutch sixteenth-seed Richard Krajicek  in the fourth-round and seventh-seed and twice-finalist Jim Courier in the  quarter-finals.
Graf was blunt about her form after her 7-5, 6-3 win over 63rd ranked  Stephanie Rottier of the Netherlands.
"Awful," she grimaced.
"Training in the rain this morning didn't help. I just felt I wasn't ready  for this match. But that's tennis. There are good days and bad days."
The defending champion, who will be 25 next month, is bidding for a fifth  consecutive major title and remains an overwhelmong favourite to win the event  for a fourth time.
She has won 14 of her last sixteen tournaments since May last year and the  only players to beat her, Spaniards Conchita Martinez and Arantxa Sanchez, are  in the other half of the draw.
Asked how she managed to keep herself motivated since she no longer  appeared to have serious challengers since the stabbing and enforced absence  of Monica Seles, Graf replied: "I don't find that hard at all -- especially at  Grand Slam events."
The player who holds the all-time record of reigning 186 weeks as world  number-one from 1987 until March 1991 and who regained her ranking from Seles  after last year's French Open, went on: "It's really quite simple. I like to  work hard. I like to practice. And I like to play matches."
Graf now faces South African Joanetta Kruger to reach the last sixteen.  Plucky Kruger, a 19-year-old from Johannesburg, came back after losing the  first set to beat Radka Zbrubakova of Slovakia.
The German's main threat could well come from Canadian-born French hope  Mary Pierce, providing both players reach the semi-final. And with four of the  six women's seeds who failed to survive the first round coming from their  portion of the draw, a showdown looks on the cards.
