Erich Honecker, who ruled communist East Germany  for 18 years and built the Berlin Wall, died Sunday of liver cancer, a  spokesperson for the family said. He was 81 years old.
The former East German communist party chief and head of state, who  arrived in Chile in January 1993, died at his home in exile in Santiago.
In Berlin, Honecker's lawyer, Wolfgang Ziegler, confirmed his death.
He led the German Democratic Republic from 1971 to 1989, but resigned in  October 1989 shortly before the Berlin Wall collapsed and fled to Moscow in  March 1991.
Expelled from Moscow in July 1992, he was tried in Berlin for the deaths  of Germans killed trying to escape to West Germany. As many as 400 people were  killed escaping between 1961 and 1989.
He was freed in 1993 and allowed to go into exile after being diagnosed  with liver cancer.
Honecker never voiced sorrow for the hundreds who were killed while  fleeing to the West or for the millions of lives stifled by the web of  eavesdroppers and hidden microphones that kept him in power.
"Neither ox nor ass can halt the forward march of socialism," Honecker  liked to say to the workers during his trips to factories and collective farms.
While on trial for the deaths of those fleeing East Germany, the former  leader reluctantly admitted that the slain fugitives had died "an unnatural  death."
Death came for Honecker at 7:00 a.m. in the neighborhood of Las Condes,  where he lived with his wife Margot, said a spokesperson for the family.
His body will be cremated Monday in Santiago and his ashes will be carried  back to Germany in accordance with his final wishes.
Prior to his release German doctors had predicted he had three to six  months to live. Honecker turned down operations to arrest the cancer.
"He was lucid when he died, with Margot at his side," said the  spokesperson, a member of the Committee of Solidarity with Honecker.
Chilean leftists, many of whom found refuge in East Germany after the  military takeover here in 1973, formed the committee to help the East German  leader emigrate here.
Honecker's daughter Sonja, who is married to a Chilean, has lived in Chile  since 1989. She was joined by her mother in 1992.
Honecker was born August 25, 1912 into poverty in the Saarland, western  Germany, to a working-class family.
