report
CANNES, France, May 15 (AFP) - Americans visit the cinema nearly twice as  often as any of their film-going counterparts in other industrialized  countries, according to a report released here Sunday.
But the survey, by the National Cinematographic Centre, shows that almost  99 percent of the films they see are US productions. US films hold between 50  and 85 percent of the market in other western countries.
The report showed that the average American visited the cinema 3.9 times  annually, with 98.7 percent of the box-office takings going to American-made  movies.
Their nearest rival in enthusiasm for the silver screen was Spain, with  2.1 visits per capita annually, followed by France (two), Britain (1.8), Italy  (1.4) and Germany (1.3).
Of the countries surveyed in the report, Japan came bottom with an average  of one visit to the cinema per person last year.
The survey, released annually on the sidelines of the Cannes International  Film Festival, revealed -- if it needed revealing -- that Steven Spielberg's  "Jurassic Park" was far and away the global hit of last year.
The film topped box office takings in most of the countries surveyed, and  took 868.1 million dollars worldwide, of which more than 60 percent was taken  outside of the United States.
In breakdowns of figures for the various countries surveyed, one of the  most startling was a 23 percent increase in admissions from 1992 to 1993 in  re-unified Germany.
France retains its "preponderant role in European film-making," with 70  international co-productions and a number of foreign directors, notably  Poland's Krzysztof Kiesloswki, choosing to make films in the country.
In Britain, the survey noted that the domestic cinema industry was  continuing its slow recovery, with a 8.3 percent increase in film production  last year and a 21 percent increase in investment.
But it noted that the leap in funding was largely accounted for by two  films with American backing: Kenneth Branagh's adaptation of Mary Shelley's  "Frankenstein," and Neil Jordan's "Interview with a Vampire."
The report, which takes its information from cinematic authorities in each  country, showed that over the last decade, overall cinema admissions worldwide  have fallen from 659 million to 558 million, a drop of 18 percent.
