The end of an era in Southern Africa will be marked  Saturday when businessman Bakili Muluzi takes power in Malawi from President  Hastings Kamuzu Banda, one of the last of the continent's strongmen from the  days of the anti-colonial struggle.
Muluzi's investiture at a stadium in the southern commercial capital,  Blantyre, will also reinforce Africa's new acceptance of multiparty democracy  after decades of colonialism, one-party rule and apartheid.
Banda's dignified concession of defeat follows the startling surrender of  power in South Africa by the white minority and the peaceful end through  elections of oppressive governments in Zambia and Namibia since the dawn of  the 90s.
Now, from Namibia on Africa's Atlantic Coast to Mozambique on the Indian  Ocean, all major Southern African countries have either accepted multiparty  democracy or are pledged to introduce it after years of civil war, though  Angola is still riven by strife.
Muluzi will have an uphill struggle to show that a vote can significantly  improve the lot of the 10 million people in this tiny, overcrowded south-east  African country.
But he will have the goodwill of most Malawians behind him as they bid  farewell to a paternalistic and repressive regime which denied them television  and miniskirts and gave them little in return for the hard work, discipline  and loyalty they were urged to show.
Although the West pointed to Malawi as an example of stable government  during the Cold War when Banda could be counted on as a staunch ally against  communism, Muluzi inherits a poverty-stricken country with one of the world's  worst infant mortality rates.
He has pledged that his government's priorities will be to alleviate  poverty and boost social services, but official statistics show that the  agriculture-based economy needs to create an impossible 400 jobs a day to beat  overwhelming unemployment.
Banda, believed to be in his 90s, was led unwillingly to the polls by  internal strikes and external economic pressure after ruling Malawi as a  personal fiefdom for three decades marred by charges of human rights abuses.
In his speech on national radio conceding defeat, he thanked Malawians for  "allowing me to be your leader for 31 years."
They didn't have much choice. Banda introduced a one-party state shortly  after taking power at independence from Britain in 1964, allowing multiparty  democracy only after a resounding defeat in a referendum last year.
The brutality of Banda's regime and the poverty of his people was often  disguised beneath the veneer of his Western acceptability, his Homburg hats  and three-piece suits.
Peace in the country was for years maintained by a vast network of spies  and informers for his Malawi Congress Party (MCP), and harsh action against  any opposition.
But Muluzi has been magnanimous in victory, pledging that there will be no  retribution against Banda and his supporters -- a good start on a continent  awash with the blood of ethnic and sectarian strife.
He says Malawians should put the past behind them and look forward to a  new culture of openness and transparency.
