A second Vietnamese has committed suicide through  self-immolation, a diplomat reported Wednesday, showing the growing  desperation of boat people facing forced repatriation.
Growing tension at Galang island camp has been matched in Hong Kong where  scores of detained Vietnamese have inflicted wounds on themselves in protest  at being forced to go home.
A diplomat in Jakarta revealed Wednesday that a Vietnamese man committed  suicide by setting fire to himself at the Galang island camp last Friday.
Amid an increasingly explosive atmosphere in the camp, hundreds of other  boat people are preventing the Indonesian authorities from taking the body of  the dead man away, he added.
"There has been a definite radicalisation of the protests," said the  diplomat, who requested anonymity. "The people who started have now been  overtaken by extremists."
"Each day between 30 and 50 inmates gather for a kind of sit-in, refusing  to eat. Hundreds of others have joined in by stopping the Indonesian  authorities from taking away the body of their dead comrade."
The Galang protests by refugees wanting to settle in Australia, Europe or  North America resumed last month to coincide with a visit to Indonesia by  Vietnamese President Le Duc Anh. The first self-immolation death came on April  28.
The Indonesian authorities want the 7,000 people remaining at the camp  repatriated by mid-1995 so they can start development of the island as an  industrial zone.
Jakarta and Hanoi signed an agreement in 1993 on voluntary repatriations.  The Indonesian government would now like the Vietnamese to do more to  encourage the boat people to go home.
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) withdrew all staff from  Galang at the start of the protests. The agency fears that its presence will  encourage more acts of violence or be used to get extra publicity.
Similarly, the European Community International Programme (ECIP) for the  reintigration of Vietnamese may withdraw from boat people camps that house  25,000 people in Hong Kong because of the worsening atmosphere.
A Hong Kong Correctional Service spokesman said Wednesday that 106  Vietnamese have been treated since May 1 after trying to cut their wrists with  razor blades, or slash their bodies with home-made knives.
Others have tried to fall from a height or bang their heads onto the wall.  There are also dozens of hunger strikers. But the spokesman, Patrick Wong,  insisted that no serious injuries had resulted in the Whitehead, High Island  or Tai A Chau camps.
The number has come down from 80,000 at the height of the boat people  crisis at the end of the 1980s. But all those considered eligible to get  asylum in a third country have already been 'screened out.'
The Hong Kong authorities want the Vietnamese out by 1997 when the  territory reverts to Chinese rule.
The UNHCR has remained in the Hong Kong camps and Wong said the two bodies  had stepped up counselling services to the refugees.
But aid workers are reported to be moving out of the camps because of  increasing apathy among the Vietnamese who will almost certainly be sent home.
The ECIP project, to retrain refugees and provide infrastructure projects  in Vietnam, was to have closed in November. But it was expected to close five  months early in Hong Kong because of declining interest among inmates.
Malaysia is still providing refuge to 5,000 boat people who are being  slowly repatriated under a UN programme launched three years ago.
A government official said those still left failed to qualify as refugees  and would have to be repatriated.
Malaysia has helped to resettle some 247,000 Vietnamese since 1975.
But the problem is not going away.
Refugees are still risking their lives on the South China Sea to get away  from Vietnam.
Sixty were intercepted in Hong Kong waters on May 12. That brought to 190  the number of Vietnamese who have sailed into Hong Kong this year.
