Meanwhile, Israel completed a redeployment from all the southern Gaza  Strip, apart from Jewish settlements which remain under army protection.
"Everything south of the river is in the hands of the Palestinian police,"  a senior Israeli military official said. The river, Wadi Gaza, cuts across the  Strip south of the Jewish settlement of Netzarim.
During the night security installations were evacuated at Khan Yunes, the  last town in the south to be evacuated following Deir el-Balah, Bureij,  Nusseirat and Rafah.
Facilities in Gaza City were to be handed over Sunday and transfer of  authority wrapped up on Wednesday.
Unlike the over-crowded Strip, population nearly 800,000, the Jericho  police will run a quiet oasis of 15,000 people, known as the world's oldest  and lowest town at 250 metres (825 feet) below sea level.
Palestinian officials said more than 1,600 soldiers had so far poured in  to Jericho and the Gaza Strip.
A total of 9,000 are to be deployed across Gaza and Jericho, most drawn  from the PLA, and named the Palestinian National Security Forces. About 1,500  will be deployed in Jericho.
"Yes, we're already starting to direct traffic," said Mahmoud Yussef, an  officer who stood in the middle of a Jericho road, shaking hands and embracing  well-wishers amid long lines of cars.
"We will work day and night, all the time. We don't need to sleep, we feel  rested now that we are in our land."
Soldiers unloaded their belongings at the new headquarter, the former  Hanan camp, a compound that housed the military administration and now renamed  Al-Aqsa, after the name of a unit from Iraq.
But, there was more jubilation than work on the compound. Children were  especially excited by the Kalashnikov rifles the soldiers carried.
And the triumphant takeover was marred by the death of an eight-year-old  Palestinian, Ammar el-Shawa, who killed himself playing with a rifle. A woman  and an elderly man were also hurt in the accident at the former Israeli  military administration building.
"It's the first time I've seen a gun up close, and not in Israeli hands,"  said Khamis Ahmad, 12, before the tragedy. Like the others, he undid the parts  of the rifle, cocked it and took aim.
"Don't worry, the guns have no bullets," said Abu Emad, a soldier.
The police closed off the area after the death of Shawa, their first  intervention.
In Gaza City, Israeli soldiers shot and wounded three people as  black-hooded Islamic fundamentalists led a protest against Palestinian  self-rule by several thousand Gazans.
