The European Union assured  African-Caribbean-Pacific (ACP) nations Wednesday that its cooperation with  South Africa would not be to their detriment.
Speaking at the start of a three-day meeting here to revise conditions for  aid and preferential trade between EU and ACP nations, EU Development  Commissioner Manuel Marin said democratisation in South Africa would "open the  way to the normalisation of relations" between Johannesburg and the EU.
Participants at Wednesday's meeting had raised the issue of South Africa  as they fear it could dominate the ACP grouping of 70 nations were it to join.  Earlier, ACP countries requested that South Africa not be invited to the  meeting.
The EU has agreed a cooperation accord with South Africa, which held its  first democratic elections three weeks ago and is believed to be considering  ACP membership as a means of gaining better access to EU markets.
The Mbabane meeting, the 19th of ACP and EU ministers, was to enable  participants to launch a mid-term review of the Lome IV trade-and-aid  convention, which regulates trade and aid conditions and which expires in 2000.
The convention, established in 1975 as a managed trade mechanism to give  the former colonies of European countries privileged access to the old  European Economic Community, is not expected to outlast the decade.
ACP members were hoping the EU would increase the figure of 12 billion Ecu  (about 14 billion dollars) which Europeans paid out up over the first  five-year period to finance the convention.
Greek Foreign Minister Theodoros Pangalos, who presides EU foreign  minister meetings, meanwhile said South Africa's transition to democracy was  the "only way possible to resolve internal conflicts" and said there were  "promising" signs of future cooperation between South Africa and the ACP.
Pangalos assured ACP members Europe was determined to keep up its aid to  the ACP to help them underpin their long-term development.
He added the EU's ACP partners "can count on the full solidarity of the  European Union, whatever its other commitments in Europe.
