North Korea has resumed refueling at a  nuclear site, defying international inspectors and threatening to make a full  accounting of weapons-grade fuel impossible, the International Atomic Energy  Agency said Friday.
IAEA director general Hans Blix said the accelerated pace of fuel rod  removal could, within days, make it impossible for inspectors to determine  whether weapons-grade plutonium had been diverted to military uses at the site  at Yongbyon.
"Should this be the case .. the agency will not be in a position to verify  the amount of plutonium produced" in North Korea, Blix said in a letter to UN  Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, a copy of which was obtained by AFP.
"At the time of writing this report almost half of the fuel in the reactor  core has been discharged and in a pattern that has precluded the agency's  ability to implement the full range of the safeguard measures required," Blix  wrote.
Earlier Friday, US and diplomatic sources said the rift with North Korea  over the nuclear inspections had deepened.
But Washington was still prepared to hold a third round of high-level  talks with North Korea to discuss a number of economic, political and security  issues and to try to bring Pyongyang into the international community, a US  official said.
"As long as it is still possible for the IAEA to do what it needs to do"  to confirm that no plutonium has been diverted for weapons use, Washington  remains willing to hold talks, the official said.
But the official reiterated Washington's stand that once that point was  past, it would seek Security Council action to force North Korea to comply.  "It is still a point of concern ... that North Korea continues to defuel the  reactor," the official said
The IAEA has said it must be able to set its own conditions to monitor the  discharge of the rods from the five-megawatt reactor at Yongbyon in order to  ascertain whether any plutonium has been diverted.
North Korea has blocked full international inspections of its nuclear  facilities for more than a year, sparking fears that it is developing nuclear  weapons.
The Security Council may discuss the issue late Friday or early Saturday,  diplomats said.
The five permanent council members (Britain, France, the United States,  China and Russia) have already held intensive talks after an informal session  between US and North Korean representatives in New York on Thursday.
The Security Council could discuss a statement, or even a resolution,  demanding that Pyongyang stop discharging the reactor or face Security Council  action, presumably sanctions.
North Korea has said it will regard sanctions as an act of war.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Friday that the United States  is not seeking confrontation with North Korea but will defend South Korea  against any aggression from Pyongyang.
"Confrontation is emphatically not our preferred path," Christopher said  in a speech to the Asia Society in New York. "US forces stand shoulder to  shoulder with those of our ally, South Korea, to deter and defeat any  agression by the North."
