German lawmakers pick a successor Monday to President  Richard von Weizsaecker, with Chancellor Helmut Kohl hoping the expected  success of his party's candidate will boost its prospects in upcoming  legislative polls.
The favourite to succeed the aristocratic but quietly popular Weizsaecker  in a special election Monday is Roman Herzog, a dyed-in-the-wool conservative  expert in jurisprudence who currently heads the constitutional court.
Herzog, 60, is the candidate of the ruling Christian Union parties for  this largely honorific post, but is paradoxically much less popular than his  Social Democrat (SPD) rival Johannes Rau, 63.
This is because the head of state will be chosen by a specially-convened  assembly in Berlin composed of the 662 federal members of parliament and an  equal number of party-chosen delegates from the 16 regional parliaments.
The Christian Union parties control the most votes, and their minority  coalition allies, the Free Democrats (FDP), are expected to back Herzog once  their own candidate, Hildegard Hamm-Bruecher, 73, is eliminated.
An independent candidate, Jens Reich, 55, from former East Germany, is  also standing with the support of the Alliance90/Greens grouping, but is an  outsider with no chance of being chosen.
Up to three rounds of voting will be held, with likely horse-trading  between them. But as no party has an absolute majority, and the vote is  secret, the outcome is uncertain, even if Herzog looks the most likely winner.
The first two rounds require that the winner have an absolute majority,  but on the third round a simple majority suffices in the indirect presidential  vote, which is held every five years.
Observers said Herzog's election would comfort Kohl and the Christian  Union parties, whose continued hold on power after 12 years in office faces a  crucial election test later this year.
A win by Rau, a veteran SPD politician and premier of the important state  of North Rhine-Westphalia for the last 15 years, would on the other hand be a  major set-back for Kohl.
The Christian Democrats and their Bavarian variation, the Christian Social  Union, refused consensus on a Rau candidacy, fearing that accession of an SPD  president would augur ill for them in legislative elections on October 16.
The last time the federal assembly chose an SPD head of state -- Gustav  Heinemann, in 1969, by a majority of just six votes -- it heralded the advent  a few months later of SPD chancellor, Willy Brandt.
In keeping with its traditional king-making role, the liberal Free  Democrat Party will again be the decisive arbiter on Monday.
With a theoretical 619 votes in the 1324-member assembly, the CDU-CSU has  the biggest block of support, against 502 votes for the SPD, which even if it  could count on the ex-commmunists and Greens would only muster 579.
The FDP controls 111 votes.
Weizsaecker, who came from the CDU but showed himself to be above party  politics, as the position requires, has to retire by June 30, when he will  have served the maximum two five-year terms allowed under the constitution.
