The mainly Moslem Bosnian government army is  steeling itself for a new round of offensives to ensure the future  Moslem-Croat federation "will have dimensions achieved on the battlefield,"  army leader General Rasim Delic said Sunday.
On a tour of army units, Delic urged Bosnian politicians to take more  account of the needs of their troops as "that is what the percentage of land  which our state will occupy depends on, rather than on (international  mediators) David Owen and Thorvald Stoltenberg".
The two mediators are the authors of a plan to carve up the Bosnian state,  with 51 percent going to the Moslem-Croat federation and 49 percent to the  Bosnian Serbs. The Moslems and their Croat allies want 58 percent but  currently only hold about 30. The Serbs control the rest.
The end of hostilities between the Moslems and Croats following their  Washington agreement to co-exist in a federation has allowed the Bosnian army  to concentrate its efforts on beating back the Serbs.
The army has already managed to progress westwards in central Bosnia  around Travnik and Turbe, and in the north, around Tesanj. Further pushes have  also seen the Moslems press eastwards within central Bosnia near Kladanj and  towards Olovo to the north east.
However, the actual territorial gains are difficult to quantify and  unspectacular, mostly constituting just a few kilometres of forest here and  there.
General Jovan Divjak, the army's number two and himself a Serb, explains  the army strategy by saying the object is to "defend territory already held,  snatch back from the enemy territories where Bosnian towns are under threat  and harry or cut its lines and means of communication".
The strategy has allowed Bosnian units to gain ground around the heights  of Vijenac, from where the Serbs were bombarding Tuzla and Lukavac in the  north east, as well as around the plateau at Nisici, overlooking Olovo in  eastern central Bosnia. They are now turning their efforts towards  neutralising the radio transmitter at Stolice, in the north east, and possibly  that at Vlasic in western central Bosnia. The plateau there is a strategic  height threatening nearby Travnik and leads to Donji Vakuf, Jajce and Kotor  Varos.
"We have still not managed to pull off a sensational victory such as  liberating a town. But we have created real conditions to liberate several,"  says General Delic. He says his aim is to "seize strategic heights in order to  lay the groundwork for offensive actions on a greater scale."
Towns on his hitlist, such as Donji Vakuf, Teslic, Brcko and Vlasenica had  a mainly Moslem population before the war broke out two years ago and are on  land which the Moslems and Croats claim for their federation.
General Divjak explains that, towards Vlasenica in the east, the army has  to cut a Serb line of communication between Zvornik and the Serb headquarters  of Pale and has to do the same to cut the Serbs off between Doboj and Teslic  in the north around Tesanj to prevent the enemy from catching the Bosnian army  in the rear at Vlasic.
But Divjak says cutting the narrow Serb corridor around Posavina in the  north, which functions as their sole transport link between Serb-held  territories, will be "impossible without cooperation with Croat forces."
General Delic deplores the fact the Croats are, despite the federation  accord, still "militarily passive" in some areas. He warns if his Croat allies  want Posavina for themselves, "they will have to fight for it."
But General Ante Roso, Croat commander in Sarajevo, where the allies are  to set up a joint command, says there is no question of engaging in fighting  over winning the corridor for the federation "as long as there is a chance of  obtaining the same result through (international) negotiation."
