A senior Washington official confirmed Wednesday  that the United States is holding discussions with Australia and ASEAN nations  about helping Cambodia defend itself against a new Khmer Rouge offensive.
Winston Lord, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific  Affairs, said Washington believed the freely elected Cambodian government must  be supported, preferably by a multilateral operation.
"We believe it is important to support that government because Cambodia is  an example of a successful UN peace-keeping operation and we want to make sure  that success is continued," he told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation  (ABC) in an interview in Washington.
The United States was talking to Australia, countries of the Association  of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and other countries such as Japan and  France which he said had a direct interest in Cambodia's future.
Referring to moves announced by Canberra last week to support Cambodia,  Lord said he knew "lethal assistance" -- military hardware -- was under  consideration. But he added that Washington was open-minded about what  assistance would be most appropriate.
"We would welcome support for the government in various ways and I think  it ought to be multilateral," he added.
He also echoed Australia's view that the Cambodian government and army  also needed training, not just materiel.
"It's understandable in the wake of all the turbulence and infighting of  recent years that the new integrated army needs training and a lot of help to  be effective as a military force," he said.
"So there's a great deal of need in that area in addition to whatever  material support may be provided."
But he said he did not know how the US Congress would respond, adding:  "Any military assistance to the Indochina area has a lot of historical  resonance to it and potential political sensitivity so we want to work  extremely closely with the Congress in this.
"We think a lot of countries beyond the two of us have a nexus including  ASEAN which has an obvious geographical and historical interest and we would  very much want to talk to them as well as Japan, france and many other  countries that have an interest."
