Unemployment and immigration are key issues for  voters in the 12-nation European Union who go to the polls on June 9 and 12 to  choose a new five-year European parliament.
Unemployment is high and growing. The welfare state has become too  expensive and inefficient. A rising clamour against immigration is feeding a  streak of right-wing xenophobia just as eastern Europe applies to join the EU.
"Employment and migration flows will be the main economic and social  problems for the next decade," said Theodoros Pangalos, Greek chairman of the  EU's council of foreign ministers until end-June.
Economic recession has changed the tone of the Euro-debate. Unemployment  reached 11.6 percent this year and is expected to keep climbing well into next  year even though the European economies are picking themselves off the floor.
Some EU governments have become more interested in national recovery than  European unity, particularly in countries where unemployment has fuelled  strong anti-immigration lobbies such as Germany, France amd Italy.
So EU-federalists have had to scale down their 1980s ambitions for a  United States of Europe and take greater account of the different languages,  cultures and sensibilities of the EU's present and future members.
Now, instead of forcing members into an uncomfortable one-size-fits-all  straitjacket, the EU is trying out a new tactic known as a multi-speed Europe  -- or a Europe of variable geometry -- adapted to the needs of different  countries.
Thus, Britain and Denmark have been given exemptions from the EU's  Maastricht treaty goal of a single currency by the end of the decade.
The "variable geometry" principle could also be applied to the countries  of central and eastern Europe that want to join the EU but are not considered  economically strong enough to become full members.
Dutch Euro-MP Gijs de Vries told AFP Monday that the EU has a duty to help  promote stability and prosperity in these post-communist societies.
This would avoid making the EU liable to extending its existing subsidy  systems to the farmers and factories of eastern Europe.
De Vries names another issue pushing into the front of the Euro-debate --  organised crime in eastern Europe and Russia that is increasingly pushing its  tentacles into western Europe.
"Dutch truck-drivers now have to pay protection money in eastern Europe,"  he said, adding that the eastern crime syndicates are increasingly involved in  the theft of cars in western Europe and of plutonium in Russia.
He believes that eastern European countries should be allowed into  meetings of EU justice ministers trying to combat organised crime in the  former Soviet empire.
The European Parliament itself will have a relatively minor role in  Europe's search for a new identity, even though it recently acquired an  enhanced power to block EU decisions.
The parliament's main job is to give a public airing to the  decision-making powers of the EU's ministerial councils and the European  Commission, its powerful executive. It can also block some decisions.
But the parliament has a golden chance to help set the EU's agenda. It  must approve the new European Commission -- the EU's 17-man executive -- which  will be in office for five years from 1995.
Euro-MP's say they will use this power as a bargaining chip to press for  reforms such as less secrecy in decision-making, and less bureaucratic red  tape and social charges imposed on small businesses.
The parliament has already been promised a role in the 1996  inter-governmental conference, where representatives of national governments  will debate how fast to progress towards a Euro-federation.
Dominating the conference will be the "deepening" versus "widening" debate  -- whether EU countries should be increasingly subject to centralised  law-making or develop into a looser, less constraining union with more members.
The debate was left unresolved during neogiations to absorb Austria,  Finland, Norway and Sweden into the EU next year.
