The "shadow of Auschwitz" looms over post-war German  generations, a senior political leader warned Sunday at a ceremony marking the  first anniversary of an arson attack which killed five Turkish immigrants.
North Rhine-Westphalia premier Johannes Rau warned against "the trail of  hatred and violence which is passing through Germany," during an official  service in the western town of Solingen to commemorate the racist attack.
Such incidents take on "a significance worse than in other countries: the  shadow of Auschwitz looms over generations born after the war," said Rau, who  was defeated last week in his bid to become federal president.
Rau also called for "long over-due" changes to Germany's nationality law  to make immigrants eligible for citizenship, "so that people are not treated  like second-class citizens because of their origin."
The ceremony, attended by some 2,500 people, came a day after an assailant  hurled a Molotov cocktail at a hall in the central German town of  Selingenstadt where 250 members of a Turkish immigrant sports club were having  a party.
No one was hurt but a car was slightly damaged.
Ignatz Bubuis, leader of Germany's Jewish community, accused Germans of  indifference to attacks on foreigners, adding that "violence does not start  with the throwing of an incendiary device ... it starts with words."
A statement was read out on behalf of Mevlude Genc, who lost two  daughters, two granddaughters and a niece in the Solingen attack. Now  seriously ill, she described her life as "unbearable," adding that she had  "never felt hatred or hostility against Germans. I still say that we want to  be friends and march hand in hand."
A religious service was held later in a mosque in the town, where 4,000  people, Germans as well as Turks, had staged a silent march Saturday carrying  banners reading "Don't forget, don't forgive," or "Solingen, humanity's shame."
The quiet demonstration was in sharp contrast to violent street protests  by enraged members of the Turkish community that erupted for several nights  following the May 29, 1993, arson attack on the home of the Turkish victims.
Four suspects, aged 16 to 24 and said to be close to the extreme right,  are facing trial in Duesseldorf for the attack, which triggered an  international outcry against xenophobia in Germany.
Police mobilized 4,000 police and anti-riot squads for weekend duty in  Solingen.
Separately, Der Spiegel magazine, in its edition due out Monday, said the  manager of a martial arts club where three of the four suspected attackers  worked out was a registered informer on extreme-right circles for Germany's  domestic secret service.
The report, which cited internal secret service documents, said the owner,  Bernd Schmitt, had founded his club with the blessing of authorities in the  hopes that it would attract neo-Nazis and allow officials to keep track of  them.
The interior minister for North Rhine-Westphalia, Herbert Schnoor, who is  head of the secret service for the Solingen area, denied the report.
