Malawi's first democratically elected president,  Bakili Muluzi, faces a string of challenges after the euphoria of Saturday's  investiture, with regional and ethnic divisions sure to test his reputation as  a skilled mediator and man of consensus.
Muluzi, 51, set out his aims before an 80,000-strong crowd at Blantyre's  football stadium after ending 30 years of autocratic one-party rule by  Hastings Kamuzu Banda, promising a new "era of tolerance."
But despite winning the presidential election on the ticket of his  powerful United Democratic Front, which will have the largest number of seats  in the new parliament, Muluzi, a southerner, is far from enjoying the support  of the entire nation.
The Alliance for Democracy party of union leader Chafukwa Chihana took all  the constituencies in the north, while Banda's Malawi Congress Party (MCP)  retained its solid level of support in central areas.
The new president underlined at his swearing-in ceremony the importance of  national unity and the need to avoid all "ethnic discrimination, regional or  tribal."
Appreciating the danger which a divided nation would pose, Muluzi held out  an olive branch to his opponents, calling on them to work together to create a  better Malawi which would belong to all.
Analysts believe Muluzi, a pragmatist, will include in his cabinet members  of all parties, including that of Chihana, who has not taken his poll defeat  lightly.
Muluzi was originally a close ally of Banda, and was secretary general of  the MCP from 1976 to 1982. That post and his career since bear evidence of his  ability to back the right horse at the right time.
Born on March 17, 1943, in a village near Machinga in southern Malawi,  Muluzi became an MCP deputy in 1973 while the principal of a technical  college. He quit that post to become minister of education for a short period.
After holding other portfolios, including that of minister for transport  and communications, he left the MCP in 1982 to enter the business world, where  he forged links in particular with the country's Asian community.
In the 1970s, many Asian traders left Malwawi after Banda decreed that  Indian and Pakistani entrepreneurs spread across the country had to close  their shops and base themselves in the cities.
Muluzi, a father of two, headed a transport company until 1992, when he  formed the UDF, which functioned as a pressure group prior to the adoption of  multipartyism.
Muluzi promised during his presidential campaign to work for change,  stressing the need to open Malawi up to the world and winning support from  business leaders as well as from MCP dissidents. Backing also mushroomed in  the south, the country's most populous and rich region as Muluzi adopted a  "man of the people" style, in stark contrast to the imperious Banda.
His jovial image won him additional acclaim, although some people  remained wary owing to reports of alleged corruption surrounding his business  dealings.
Muluzi's call for tolerance among all sections of the community was thrown  into sharp relief at his investiture as religious leaders of all the major  faiths prayed for peace and justice. Muluzi is a Moslem, but his vice  president, Justin Malewezi, is a Christian.
