President Nelson Mandela said Wednesday he would  meet on Monday with neo-Nazi leader Eugene Terre'Blanche as part of an  initiative designed to draw the white right-wing into peaceful negotiations.
The meeting will be a first between the two men, with Terre'Blanche,  leader of the extremist Afrikaner Resistance Movement (AWB), having in the  past vowed never to sit down with Mandela or the "terrorists" and "communists"  he claims make up Mandela's African National Congress (ANC).
According to the domestic news agency SAPA, Mandela made the surprise  announcement after talks here with retired military general Constand Viljoen,  who heads the white right-wing Freedom Front.
The President said the meeting would also be attended by pro-apartheid  Conservative Party (CP) leader Ferdi Hartzenberg.
Hartzenberg, whose CP boycotted last month's historic all-race election,  to press its demand for a separate white homeland, held talks here earlier  Wednesday with Mandela as part of the president's peace initiative.
Early signs of a softening in the AWB's hardline stance came last week  when spokesman Fred Rundle said the AWB would be forced to hold talks with the  ANC now that it was in power.
Terre'Blanche shifted further Wednesday when he said he was prepared to  meet Mandela on condition all right-wingers in jail and awaiting trial were  released.
Thirty-two AWB members are awaiting trial for a bombing spree in the two  days before the April 26-29 election that killed 21 people, and among the  right-wingers in jail are Janusz Walus and Clive Derby-Lewis, the assassins of  communist leader and black hero, Chris Hani.
Mandela indicated Wednesday that there was room for flexibility on the  question of amnesty for right-wingers but it was not immediately clear whether  he had made any concessions to Terre'Blanche.
He said he wanted to meet the AWB leader to "address the problems of the  ultra-right so it can be included in the process of using peaceful methods".
The ANC's desire to meet all groups was part of its strategy to include  all political organisations in solutions, he added.
"I'm thinking of eliminating all causes of tension," Mandela said.
