The Camelot Group, a consortium including Cadbury  Schweppes and banknote printer De La Rue, on Wednesday won the battle to run  Britain's new National Lottery in competition with seven rival bidders.
Camelot beat an all-charity plan from Virgin chief Richard Branson and  consortiums involving television companies, newspapers, banks and top British  companies.
The director general of the National Lottery, Peter Davis, said the group  was chosen because it "best meets the duties" set out in last year's National  Lottery Act which were mainly to ensure that the lottery was run with "due  propriety."
He said Camelot would "maximise returns" and would retain a lower  percentage of income in profits and running costs than any other applicants.
The lottery, which is to be functioning by November this year, will create  a new millionaire every week through prize money and provide millions of  pounds for good causes through a National Lottery Distribution Fund.
The government's stated aim is to raise money for sport, the arts and  charities. About 50 percent of the total will probably go in prizes, 12  percent in tax, 23 percent to good causes and about 15 percent on the  operator's costs and profits.
National Heritage Secretary Peter Brooke said "everybody" stood to benefit  from the lottery: "local museums, theatres and sports clubs; national arenas  for the display of artistic and athletic excellence; and the preservation of  our natural heritage."
Camelot forecast that between now and 2001, when the licence expires, its  turnover would be 32 billion pounds and its contribution to good causes would  exceed nine billion pounds.
Camelot, in which the other participants are Cadbury Schweppes (22.5  percent), De La Rue (22.5 percent), Racal Electronics (22.5 percent), the US  company GTech (22.5 percent), and computer group ICL (10 percent), intends to  involve all members of the consortium in running the lottery.
The operation needs expertise in high technology for the network of ticket  sales and instant wins, the ticket printing experience of De La Rue and the  distribution skills of a company such as Cadbury to thousands of small shops.
G-Tech is already the world's leading lottery operator.
Davis said Camelot had committed itself to launching the lottery in early  November with an on-line lotto game which is based on players choosing six  numbers from a field of 49.
It was expected that instant games, such as scratch cards, would be  launched in the spring of 1995.
Tickets for the on-line lotto would cost one pound, while tickets for  instant games would initially also cost one pound, but other instant games  could be introduced later with prices ranging from 50 pence to five pounds.
The initial on-line lotto game is expected to have a televised weekly  draw, with a weekly jackpot pool in the region of four to five million pounds  a week. Two winners are expected to share this jackpot.
Davis said Camelot, which will be based in Windsor, Berkshire, planned to  have 10,000 outlets, mostly newsagents, tobacconists, and convenience stores,  selling tickets at the launch.
The full retail network would be complete by December 1996 and would  consist of 27,000 on-line outlets and a further 12,000 outlets selling only  instant games.
Surveys show that at least half the adult population would buy a ticket,  but children under 16 will be banned from taking part.
Among the unsuccessful bidders were: The UK Lottery Foundation backed by  Branson; the Enterprise Lottery Company, which involved Thorn EMI; and the  Great British Lottery Co. which involved Granada, Carlton Communications and  Associated Newspapers.
