Bosnian Moslems and Croats will press demands for  more land at a meeting of the warring factions Wednesday in the French Alps  near here with an international contact group, a Moslem delegate said.
Sources close to the talks said the final delegates from all three sides  had arrived in Geneva Tuesday.
Diplomatic sources said the contact group would start preliminary  bilateral meetings with the factions later Tuesday.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe earlier announced that the contact  group would meet in the French town of Talloires in the Alps but had not said  the warring parties would also be there.
Though Geneva has been the usual venue for such talks, the meetings  Tuesday and Wednesday were moved just across the border to Talloires, though  it was not explained why.
The contact group, which includes experts from the European Union, Russia,  the United States and the United Nations, has been trying to restart the peace  process to end the more than two-year-old conflict.
The Moslem and Croat delegations, which arrived Sunday night, will be led  respectively by the prime minister of the Moslem-led Bosnian government, Haris  Silajdzic, and Croat leader Kresimir Zubak.
The Bosnian Serb delegation arrived Tuesday, headed by Momcilo Krajisnik,  the speaker of their self-proclaimed parliament.
Krajisnik said his side wanted a ceasefire as soon as possible and did not  attach any conditions to a truce or new peace talks.
But, he insisted, referring to sanctions in effect against Serbia and NATO  air raids against Bosnian Serbs, "we think we must be treated in the same way."
"Serbs are the only ones to be threatened ... to get bombed and to have  sanctions imposed against them," he said, speaking after a meeting with  international mediators Lord Owen and Thorvald Stoltenberg.
A member of the Moslem delegation who asked not to be named accused the  superpowers Tuesday of trying to "dictate and impose" a solution on  Bosnia-Hercegovina that would not restore peace.
He rejected a European plan for the ethnic division of Bosnia-Hercegovina,  which the contact group backed at a meeting in Geneva on May 13 and urged all  sides to accept.
At that meeting, the contact group called for a four-month ceasefire and a  resumption of peace talks in two weeks.
The Moslem delegate Tuesday said the Moslem and Croat leaders -- who  agreed this year to form a new Moslem-Croat federation in Bosnia-Hercegovina  -- would use their own proposal made in Vienna earlier this month.
That plan gave the federation a greater chunk of land, 58 percent of  Bosnian territory, than the European plan.
The European plan provides 51 percent of the territory for the  Moslem-Croat federation and 49 percent for Bosnian Serbs.
The Moslem delegate said the Moslems and Croats would present themselves  as a "united" front at Talloires and "undertake discussions on the basis" of  their Vienna plan.
Krajisnik said setting percentages for partitioning land was "a useless  way of doing things. It must not be a precondition for the continuation of  talks."
Diplomatic sources said they expected negotiators first to try reach a  general ceasefire. Fighting has continued on the ground with the Moslems  clearly on the offensive.
Serb forces have also failed to draw back from an exclusion zone around  the eastern Moslem enclave of Gorazde by a Saturday deadline as called for in  an agreement with the UN.
Juppe warned Tuesday that "if the parties involved don't want peace we  will act accordingly."
He said the plan offering Moslems and Croats 51 percent "respects Bosnia's  unity," adding that if it were rejected by the warring parties, France would  consider withdrawing its peacekeeping troops from Bosnia-Hercegovina by the  end of the year.
Spain and Britain have also said they may pull their troops from the  war-torn country if there is no breakthrough in the peace process.
Juppe said members of the contact group did not plan to wait for an answer  to their proposal beyond mid-June when they are due to hold another  ministry-level meeting.
