President Joaquin Balaguer edged closer to  victory in presidential elections here Wednesday, but the leading opposition  candidate vowed to contest results he said were fraudulent.
"There has been no fraud. The elections have been clean and pure,"  Balaguer said in statements published Wednesday by the local press.
After a day of high tension, fed by fears of a violent opposition  backlash, the capital slowly began returning to normal Wednesday.
Elite army troops armed with assault rifles and police, who were out in  force Tuesday, guarded government buildings and the headquarters of the  Central Election Board Wednesday but in smaller numbers.
With nearly 95 percent of the vote counted, Balaguer held to a narrow lead   over social democratic challenger Jose Francisco Pena Gomez. The returns  showed the incumbent with 42.57 percent of the vote to 41.66 for the candidate  of the Dominican Revolutionary Party.
If the results are confirmed, the 87-year-old Balaguer will have captured  the Dominican presidency for the seventh time, extending his preeminence over  the local political scene into another four-year term.
But Pena Gomez, 57, a populist firebrand and candidate of the Dominican  Revolutionary Party (PRD), has challenged the results and accused the Central  Election Board of engaging in "blatant fraud."
He charged that 200,000 people were stricken from voting lists and denied  the opportunity to vote.
Pena Gomez told reporters he would go to the election board Wednesday to  formally demand that the elections be declared invalid in some parts of the  country because of fraud, and that elections be held again in those areas.
"He is determined not to let our victory be hijacked," PRD official Rafael  Taveras said. "We are going to undertake all the actions necessary, by civic  means, to stop this scandalous fraud."
It was not clear how long the election board would have to act on Pena  Gomez' challenge.
So far the election have proceeded without violence, but at least 30  people were killed in partisan clashes during the campaign.
The ruling Reformist Social Christian Party noted that the abstention rate  was only 10 percent, and argued that if there were irregularities they were  minimal and not on the scale claimed by the opposition.
"Definitely, I believe that the elections have been clean and pure and I  think that the international observers have to testify to that," Balaguer said  in comments quoted by the local press.
An estimated 400 international observers, including a team from the  Organization of American States (OAS), were on hand for Monday's elections.
Observers from the Socialist International, to which the PRD is affiliated  and which monitored the vote at the PRD's invitation, backed Pena Gomez  charges.
Luis Ayala, president of the Socialist International for Latin America,  said there were "serious and grave irregularities that have affected the  conduct of truly free, fair and informed elections."
However, former president Juan Bosch, candidate of the Dominican  Liberation Party, who placed third with an estimated 13 percent of the vote,  said he accepted the official results.
"Fraud is normal in the Dominican Republic in the current situation," he  said.
