The Romanian, now ranked 41, was runner-up to France's Julie Halard in  Taranto and then reached the semi-final at the Italian Open -- beating  Gabriela Sabatini and Austria's experienced Judith Wiesner on the way.
It was the first time Fernandez, who took a set off Graf in last year's  final, had faced her and the tall American baseliner simply could not cope  with the Romanian's athleticism and shot variety.
Spirlea found herself trailing 0-2 but she was never overawed by the  surroundings. And once she had found her length she always had Fernandez under  pressure.
The Romanian, who was making her second appearance at Roland Garros after  a first round defeat two years ago, started to make serious progress in  professional tennis after the Romanian Revolution.
"Before the Revolution we play only in local tournaments in East Europe.  But afterwards we can travel."
Spirlea said she didn't care what surface she played on.
"I like all surfaces," she said. "Soon I play on a grass court for the  first time. I am going to Eastbourne and then I shall play Wimbledon."
Amanda Coetzer, 22, another of the newcomers currently taking the women's  game by the cruff of the neck, dropped only three games against Czech Marketa  Kochta to reach the last-sixteen.
The South African, who put out sixth-seed Kimiko Date of Japan in the  first round, now has a likely showdown with twelfth-seeded Canadian-born  teenager Mary Pierce of France.
In the men's singles, world number-one Pete Sampras moved one-step closer  a potentially explosive quarter-final against twice-champion Jim Courier.
It was just like the old days for Courier who was always in charge against  Jonas Bjorkman.
The Swede didn't know what hit him as the 1991 and 1992 champion blasted  home his winners for a 6-3, 6-1, 6-1 victory in just 1hr 48min.
Sampras, serving better than he has since the tournament began last  Monday, disposed of Paul Haarhuis of the Netherlands for the loss of just six  games.
Courier, who lost to Sergi Bruguera in last year's final, now plays the  winner of the all-French clash between Fabrice Santoro and Olivier Delaitre.
Sampras will meet either sixteenth-seed Richard Krajicek of the  Netherlands or Swedish qualifier Mikael Tillstroem.
