Former diplomat Alexander Downer assumed control  of Australia's Liberal Party on Monday and promised to end years of "dark and  divisive politics."
The 42-year-old son and grandson of prominent Australian politicians won a  ballot against incumbent John Hewson, who last week called the leadership vote  after support crumbled amid gloomy poll-ratings and dissatisfaction among  party chiefs.
Downer's victory, by a comfortable 43 votes to 36 makes him leader of the  conservative coalition of which the rural-based National Party is the junior  partner.
The former union-busting lawyer Peter Costello, Downer's 36-year-old  running-mate on a so-called "youth ticket" was elected deputy leader  unopposed. Hewson's deputy Michael Wooldridge decided against renominating.
Downer is the 10th Liberal leader since the late Sir Robert Menzies  founded the party 50 years ago. It was the fifth leadership change since the  coalition was last in office under Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser from 1975 to  1983.
Each leader including Andrew Peacock, who served two terms, was crippled  by bitter factionalism and internal feuding.
Downer told a media conference: "I commit myself to giving our party a  fresh start."
He pledged to doing everything "to restore hope and a bright future for  Australia, adding: "For far too long Australians have had to live with dark  and divisive politics, of vitriolic abuse and sectional deals.
"For far too long Australians have had to listen to excuses for failure.  For far too long we've been told high unemployment is just a fact of life,  that our massive foreign debt doesn't matter and that the tragedy of family  breakdown is beyond solution.
"I don't accept this defeatist attitude. I never have been defeatist. A  government which is open, fair and in touch with the ambitions, hopes and  ambitions of all Australians can solve these problems."
He said everyone in the Liberal Party had been through difficult times but  added: "Today we have put all of that behind us."
Downer also thanked Hewson for his work over the last four years,  describing him as "a highly intelligent, dedicated, determined and decent man."
The new opposition leader, member of a long-established political family  from Adelaide, was educated at the exclusive Geelong Grammar school near  Melbourne where the Prince of Wales was also a student.
He spent 11 years in Britain. Downer picked up an honours degree in  economics at Newcastle University and a plummy English accent which has been a  handicap in the rough and tumble of Australian politics.
Downer and Costello have been seen as the party's "Young Turks" since  coming to prominence in the last two years.
As a team, they represent a generational switch from the leadership of  people like Peacock, John Howard and Hewson.
First elected Liberal leader in 1990, Hewson was re-elected in March 1993  after the coalition suffered a disastrous defeat in a so-called unlosable  election while Australia was still suffering the effects of its worst  recession for 60 years.
Downer's father, Sir Alexander Downer, was renowned conservative federal  minister and Australian high commissioner in London from 1964 to 1972. His  grandfather Sir John Downer (1843-1915) is remembered as a progressive South  Australian premier.
Father of three daughters and a son, Downer worked as a bank economist,  speechwriter for Malcolm Fraser during his prime ministership. He served as a  diplomat between 1976 and 1982 as a member of the Australian Mission to the  EEC in Brussels and at the Australian Embassy in Belgium and Luxembourg.
He has held a range of shadow portfolios, including trade, defence and  most recently treasury matters.
