Indian Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao was  scheduled to leave here for Houston, Texas on Sunday, to discuss US investment  prospects in India, notably in the just-opened telecommunications sector.
Later in the week Rao, the first Indian prime minister to visit the United  States in seven years, is expected to discuss a number of thorny issues with  President Bill Clinton in Washington, including India's ambitious nuclear  program.
But the first part of his trip was focussed on selling the advantages of  the Indian economy to outside investment under the reforms begun when Rao took  office three years ago.
In Houston, Rao, and an Indian business delegation travelling with him,  will mainly discuss the telecommunications and energy markets, including oil  exploration, at a lunch with more than 300 US business representatives, the  embassy in Washington said.
"These are priority areas for India today because of the economic  development process we're going through," said Ravi Dhapar, Indian consul for  commerce and information in San Francisco.
On Friday, the eve of Rao's departure, India announced it would open up  basic telephone services to foreign and domestic private companies, taking the  first step towards private phone networks.
The move is aimed at meeting an eight-billion-dollar shortfall in the   nearly 14 billion dollars required to modernise India's antiquated telephone  system and provide a phone on demand to its citizens by 1996.
India currently has 0.8 telephones per 100 people, with three million  people on a waiting list up to five years long and which is growing at the  rate of 15-20 percent a year.
Major US telecom firms such as US West and Motorola have been eagerly  waiting to enter the huge Indian market of nearly 900 million people.
On Tuesday he will go to Boston and deliver a lecture at Harvard, before  travelling to Washington, where he will attend a dinner hosted by the National  Association of Manufacturers.
Wednesday, the 73-year-old prime minister will meet with the Indian  Interest Group, which represents US companies with investments in India,  before addressing a joint session of Congress.
