Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis was laid to rest  alongside president John Kennedy in Arlington National Cemetery Monday,  eulogized as a devoted mother and reluctant legend who displayed great grace  under pressure.
Her children Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, 36, and John Kennedy Jr, 33,  knelt in prayer before her casket at the gravesite of their father, who was  slain more than 30 years ago.
As family members gathered around the eternal flame which burns at the  grave, President Bill Clinton offered America's farewell "to this remarkable  woman whose life will forever glow in the lives of her fellow Americans."
"Whether she was soothing a nation grieving for a former president or  raising the children with the care and the privacy they deserved or simply  being a good friend, she seemed always to do the right thing in the right  way," Clinton said.
In keeping with Onassis' passion for privacy, the burial and her funeral  earlier in New York were family affairs.
But Americans watched on television as the former First Lady's remains  were brought to their final resting place at the historic cemetery overlooking  the Potomac river.
Since Onassis' death of cancer Thursday night, hundreds of ordinary people  have held a vigil outside her Manhattan apartment.
On Monday morning, they lined the streets near the St. Ignatius of Loyola  Church where her funeral was attended by First Lady Hillary Clinton, friends  and members of the Kennedy, Bouvier and Auchincloss families.
Senator Ted Kennedy remembered his sister-in-law as the woman who "held us  together as a family and a country" in the traumatic days that followed  Kennedy's assassination in Dallas, Texas on November 22, 1963.
"She was a blessing to us and to the nation -- and a lesson to the world  on how to do things right, how to be a mother, how to appreciate history, how  to be courageous," Kennedy said.
Schlossberg read a poem by Edna St. Vincent Millay, "Memory of Cape Cod,"  and Kennedy remembered his mother's "love of words, bonds of home and family  and her spirit of adventure."
"And so farewell, farewell," said her long-time companion, diamond  merchant Maurice Templesman.
Opera singer Jessye Norman sang Ave Maria during communion.
A black hearse bearing the Onassis coffin led a procession of limousines  from her Fifth Avenue apartment to the Park Avenue church where she was  Christened.
The funeral was private, but US television networks filmed the arrival of  Onassis' casket to the church and broadcast the service live in audio. Cameras  and photographers were barred from the church.
Police closed the blocks around the church except to residents and kept  onlookers several blocks away behind barricades.
The service was in keeping with the intensely private life that Onassis  led in the years following the death in 1975 of her second husband, Greek  shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis.
Working in virtual anonymity as a book editor, she fought fiercely to keep  paparazzi at bay and raise her children out of the public eye.
"I often think of what she said about Jack in December after he died,"  said Kennedy. "'They made him a legend, when he would have preferred to be a  man.' Jackie would have preferred to be just herself, but the world insisted  she be a legend too."
"She never wanted public notice -- in part I think, because it brought  back painful memories of an unbearable sorrow, endured in the glare of a  million lights."
The fascination she held for the public was evident in the outpouring of  sympathy and reminiscences about her style and sophistication and the role she  played in creating the aura of "Camelot" during Kennedy's White House years.
As First Lady, she championed the arts, charmed foreign leaders, showcased  the history and traditions of the White House.
Born Jacqueline Bouvier on July 28, 1929, in Southampton, New York, to a  wealthy New York couple, she studied at Vassar and George Washington  University and worked briefly as the Inquiring Camera Girl for the Washington  Times-Herald newspapers.
Her early assignments included an interview with then Senator Kennedy,  whom she married in September 1953.
During the 10-year marriage, Kennedy Onassis gave birth to two children  who survived into adulthood, Caroline and John, but suffered a miscarriage, a  stillborn birth and the death of son Patrick after 39 hours.
