Japan, preparing to reopen tough trade talks with  the United States, turned the tables on its major trading partners Tuesday by  declaring "all are sinners" for employing unfair trade policies.
In an official report, the ministry of international trade and industry  accused the United States of continuing to use "unilateral measures" to settle  trade disputes.
The report addressed "unfair trade policies" by 10 major trading partners  of Japan, which is often portrayed as the bad guy in world trade because of  its huge trade surpluses, and emphasised the country's commitment to the World  Trade Organisation (WTO).
The WTO will be set up in January to enforce freer trade and settle  disputes under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). "As we have  stated, multilateral dispute settlement procedures are the only way to resolve  trade conflicts without undermining free trade," the report said.
It challenged trade barriers in the United States, the European Union,  South Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia  and Canada, in such areas as import curbs, anti-dumping laws and rules of  origin.
The report particularly denounced as a "serious threat to international  trade" the recent revival of the US "Super 301" trade law clause, which   authorises punitive measures against countries seen as being unfair trading  partners.
The provision was reinstated after Japan broke off trade talks in February  by rejecting US demands for setting "numerical targets" in opening Japan's  markets to foreign goods. Japan says such measures are managed trade.
The two countries finally agreed last week to reopen trade talks by  seeking "objective criteria" in gauging the opening of Japan's markets,  focusing on insurance, automobiles, autoparts and government procurement.
As talks on the insurance business were to start Wednesday, Japan still  feared Washington would try to force specific targets, such as the number of  dealerships for imported cars.
The report welcomed "progress" made by the United States in eliminating  "voluntary export restraints" it has forced on such Japanese products as  machine tools, automobiles, steel and textiles.
But it said Washington "still uses environmental and national security  reasons to place quantitative restrictions on imports."
The report also slapped the legislation on government procurement, called  "Buy American" laws, which it said "expressly discriminate against foreign  suppliers."
The European Union also came under fire for following the United States in  "abusing" anti-dumping laws and aribitrary applying its own "rules of origin"  -- whereby products made in Europe by Japanese subsidiaries are defined as  Japanese.
The report said the EU still demands "voluntary export restrictions" on  Japanese exports of forklift trucks, textiles and automobiles.
South Korea has lifted curbs on Japanese products but still had problems  in the areas of rule of origin, standards and certification systems,  trade-related investment measures and protection of intellectual property  rights, the report said.
Australia was "one of the leading initiators of anti-dumping  investigations" and Hong Kong and Singapore "should improve their enforcement  of intellectual property rights," the report said.
It called on Canada to do away with export curbs on logs and chided  Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia for imposing quantitative curbs on "numerous  goods" and having local-content requirements and "weak enforcement of  intellectual property rights."
Apart from the 10 trading partners, who are all GATT members, the report  also called on China and Taiwan to remove such trade barriers as high tariffs  and quantitative restrictions on imports before joining the world free trade  body.
The ministry said the report, the third of its kind, was "a dispassionate  and constructive approach" to promote free trade "by demonstrating that almost  all countries, to some extent, employ trade policies and measures that fail to  conform to international norms."
The report said, "As we have noted in the past, 'all are sinners.'"
