French President Francois Mitterrand and  German Chancellor Helmut Kohl were joined by French Prime Minister Edouard  Balladur for a second day of talks in this eastern city Tuesday.
Kohl and Mitterrand are presiding over this 63rd Franco-German summit  aimed at coordinating their stand on European issues. Bonn takes over the  six-month rotating European Union (EU) presidency from Greece in July, with  France next in line for next winter.
The talks here also focused on two other key meetings -- the European  summit of leaders from the 12 EU member states to be held on the Greek island  of Corfu on June 24 and 25 and the Group of Seven meeting to be held in the  Italian city of Naples on July 8 to 10.
A press conference was planned when the meetings end later in the day.
Kohl and Balladur walked the 500 meters (yards) from their residence to  where Mitterrand was awaiting them on the steps of his official residence  during the talks.
Three other working luncheons were held simultaneously here Tuesday. These  involved the French and Germany economy and finance ministers Edmond  Alphandery and Theo Waigel, and the two countries' foreign and defense  ministers, Alain Juppe and Francois Leotard for Paris and Klaus Kinkel and  Volker Ruehe for Bonn.
The third breakfast involved the culture minister Jacques Toubon and  Francois Bayrou, minister for national education, who were meeting with Oskar  Lafontaine, who has been named plenipotentiary for French-German cultural  cooperation.
After Monday's talks, a French presidential spokesman said that the two  leaders "showed a great convergency of views" on a range of subjects including  European issues, nuclear cooperation with Ukraine, the preparation for the  French and German European presidencies and the succession to the presidency  of the European Commission.
Mitterrand also reiterated his call for an immediate international summit  on the Bosnian conflict, warning "every delay carries dangers with it and  public opinion risks growing impatient if things do not happen."
A highlight outside the talks Monday came when Kohl gave Mitterrand a  painting by French impressionist Claude Monet taken by Nazi troops during  World War II and asked that it be returned to its former owners.
At an official dinner Monday, Kohl said 28 paintings taken as Nazi war  spoils from French families would be returned.
There was a note of nostalgia at the dinner, as Kohl is facing tough  legislative elections in October and Mitterrand is in his last year of office  as French president.
Outside the talks, some 100 French hospital workers demonstrated quietly  Tuesday morning for the second day running, this time near a cultural center  inaugurated by Mitterrand and Kohl, while police kept them away from the  building.
The demonstrators, who gathered in central Mulhouse on Monday, were  protesting planned reductions in the number of hospital employees.
