It will harbour one of the most intriguing of the first-round matches when  twice-finalist Andre Agassi faces 29-year-old wild-card entry Mats Wilander.  The veteran Swede, three-times champion and twice runner-up, has been enjoying  a spirited comeback which has raised many eyebrows.
The former world number-one romped to a fourth-round berth at the  Australian Open, and has since reached the semi-final in Pinhurst and a  quarter-final in Atlanta.
Agassi has had an 'up-and-down' return to the tour after a wrist operation  at Christmas.
Although he started off superbly by winning Scottsdale and then reaching  the final at Key Biscayne, his confidence has disintegrated recently after  early dismissals at both Monte Carlo and Rome.
And the fact that Wilander, who last defeated Agassi in a five-set  semi-final classic here back in 1988, has never lost to the brash American  won't help Agassi's concentration.
Another tough first-round clash comes when sixteenth-seeded Richard  Krajicek of the Netherlands faces Czech journeyman Karel Novacek. The big  Dutch player finally clinched a place in the semi-finals here last year by  coming back despite losing the first and third sets to Novacek and win a  five-set thriller.
In the lower-half of the draw, second-seed Michael Stich has not matched  his remarkable 1993 form where he led Germany to Davis Cup triumph and won the  ATP Championship finals. So far this year he has had several naging injury  problems and posted only one win -- at Munich -- where her beat Petr JKorda in  three sets. But he remains convinced a 'serve-and-volley' player can win the  title.
His first-round opponent is Renzo Furlan of Italy, and the first seed he  is expected to play will be the number 15, Carlos Costa of Spain.
If things go according to the draw, Stich will need to play former  champion and eighth seed Michael Chang  -- proving Chang sees off expected  ninth-seeded fourth-round opponent Todd Martin -- before facing either thid  seed Stefan Edberg of fifth-seeded Goran Ivanisevic for a place in the final.
