Chinese director Zhang Yimou announced  Tuesday that he was staying away from the Cannes Film Festival in protest at  his country's censorship of his film "Huozhe" (To Live).
Festival director Gilles Jacob immediately responded by saying he  regretted the decision, and that he "deplored" Zhang's absence.
A statement by Zhang was read out by producer Chiu Fusheng at the start of  a press conference ahead of the premiere of the movie, widely tipped to do  well here.
"Because my film, "To Live", has still not received its censors' visa in  China, I am unable to come to the Cannes festival. I regret this very much,"  the statement said.
"I am very happy that "To Live" is being presented here. I thank festival  director Gilles Jacob, and all those who will see the film." The statement was  addressed to Jacob.
The film, by the director of the 1991 hit "Raise the Red Lantern," tells  the story of three generations of a family living through the China of the  1940s, 50s and 60s, including the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural  Revolution.
The press conference was also attended by actress Gong Li, a long-time  associate of Zhang and star of last year's joint Golden Palm winner, "Farewell  to My Concubine."
Chiu indicated that Zhang himself, who was in Paris two weeks ago, had  returned to China and was "in a process of communication with the authorities"  there.
"By his own decision he thought it better to return to China for personal  reasons and to communicate with the Chinese authorities."
Chiu added that Zhang had already had experience of his films not being  allowed initially to be screened in China, but that the situation could change  within a few years.
"He has already had the experience that you must wait one year, maybe two  years, and so he hopes the film can one day be seen by Chinese people in  China. That is his deepest wish."
He added that that Zhang's seat at the various ceremonies in his honour of  the film, which premieres Tuesday evening, would remain symbolically empty.
Jacob responded to the declaration, which came on the fifth full day of the  47th Cannes International Film Festival, in a personal message to Zhang  expressing his regret.
"Zhang Yimou cannot be with us today. The festival deplores that. He is a  worldfamous filmmaker. He has made China loved throughout the entire world,  the whole world loves his cinema," he said in a statement.
"To Zhang Yimou, back there, I sent a personal message of friendship and  admiration.
"And, together with professionals from every country who are here, who are  lending their thousands of voices, tens of thousands of voices to me, I want  to say to him simply: 'Live!'
Gong Li, speaking through a translator, tried to play down Zhang's  statement. "The artistic aspects are more important than the political  aspects. I don't think the two should be mixed," she said.
"To Live" has been widely tipped as a possible successor to Chen Kaige's  "Farewell to My Concubine," which won the coveted Golden Palm last year along  with Jane Campion's "The Piano."
