Alexander Solzhenitsyn, whose writings revealed to  the world the horrors of the Soviet labour camps, returns to his homeland  Friday to carve out a role in the new Russia as a spiritual leader.
Twenty years after he was expelled from the Soviet Union, the writer  arrives in the Pacific port city of Vladivostok and plans a long cross-country  journey by train to Moscow to reacquaint himself with his homeland.
The return of the famous dissident is a powerful symbol of Russia's  metamorphosis from totalitarian state to an emerging democracy and underscores  the country's efforts to reconcile itself with its communist past.
It has also sparked debate in Russian society over whether the writer will  be able to stay out of politics as he has vowed to do, and whether he retains  his moral authority despite years spent far from home.
His nationalist views on redefining Russia's borders to include northern  Kazakhstan and part of Ukraine as well as Belarus could play into the hands of  the hardline opposition, as could his harsh criticism of the West.
Solzhenitsyn also supports President Boris Yeltsin, whom he considers to  be Russia's liberator from communism and has repeatedly praised his courage in  the face of the 1991 hardline Soviet coup.
Former dissident and human rights advocate Sergei Kovalyev said the Nobel  Prize winning author of the epic "Gulag Archipelago" and "One Day in the Life  of Ivan Denisovich" would not join the ranks of ultranationalists and  extremists, ITAR-TASS reported.
"I think that above all, he will have a hard time in determining his  allies," he commented.
Political commentator Pavel Felgenhauer wrote that Solzhenitsyn, 75, could  become "Russia's conscience", filling the void left by the death of Andrei  Sakharov in 1989.
Russia needs "a moral anchor in a sea of corruption, political cynism and  of chameleons. She does not need a political leader but a national figure of  authority", Felgenhauer said in the authoritative newspaper Sevodnya.
"Only time will tell if Alexander Solzhenitsyn can fulfill this role."
In returning to Russia, Solzhenitsyn, his wife Natalia, and two of his  sons have chosen to pay homage to the sixty million victims of the Soviet  repression by arriving in the heartland of the labour camp network, known as  the "gulag".
The Alaska Airlines flight from Anchorage to Vladivostok will make a  stopover in Magadan, a former dispatch center of the gulag from where  political prisoners and some of Russia's best literary minds, including poet  Osip Mandelstam, were sent to the nearby Kolyma gold fields.
Solzhenitsyn will spend a few days in Vladivostok meeting local people  including fishermen and sailors of the Pacific Fleet before undertaking the  journey across Siberia and the Urals.
In Moscow, he will live in a downtown apartment until construction on a  two-story brick house in the nearby village of Troitse-Lukovo is completed.
The house, surrounded by a high green fence, was built on an estate given  to the writer by the city of Moscow and located in a choice suburb near the  Moscow river that was a former resting place for the party elite.
Solzhenitsyn, who lived two years in Zurich and 18 in the small town of  Cavendish, Vermont, vowed he would not return until charges of treason were  dropped against him and until Soviet authorities allowed his books to be  published in his homeland, in particular "Gulag Archipelago".
The charges were formally dropped in 1991 one year after Mikhail Gorbachev  restored his Soviet citizenship.
About five million copies of "Gulag Archipelago" have been printed since  1989, according to editor Mutira Nurazov who works at the Solzhenitsyn Fund in  Moscow.
