US-Japan trade talks to try to break a  three-month deadlock will go into a second day Friday after getting off to a  good start Thursday, US officials said.
"They will continue discussions this evening and into tomorrow" a  spokeswoman for the US Trade Representative's Office said after the two sides  held three hours of talks Thursday morning.
She said the exploratory talks were being pursued "diligently" by both  sides and that they would meet over dinner Thursday and again Friday morning.
The session had originally been scheduled to last only one day.
Earlier in the day US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor had said the  talks were off to a good start and were making progress.
"It was a good start. We had an exchange of very detailed ideas," Kantor  said as he left his office for a congressional hearing after taking part in  the first 40 minutes of the talks.
The meetings are aimed at reaching agreement to resume talks on opening  Japan's markets and reducing its 60-billion-dollar trade surplus with the  United States which broke down in February.
Washington has since said it was up to Japan to come back with new  proposals but that it would not return to the negotiating table until the two  sides had found a basis of agreement to resume talks that gave a good chance  of success.
Reports from Tokyo this week indicated that the Japanese side would come  to Washington prepared to accept in some form the numerical targets demanded  by the US side as a way to measure progress.
Until now, Japan has rejected this demand outright, saying it smacks of  managed trade and quotas.
Kantor refused to say whether the Japanese officials had brought any new  proposals.
A Japanese official said the almost six-hour gap between the morning  session and the evening meeting was to give the US side time to discuss  matters, but refused to give any more details.
The Japanese delegation spent the afternoon waiting for the US side to  call and say they were ready to continue, the official added.
