A Chinese national claims he recently secretly  photographed Chinese prisons disguised as factories that export their products  to America.
The export to the United States of products made by forced labor would  violate one of the conditions laid down by President Bill Clinton must decide  by June 3 whether to extend most favored nation trading benefits to China.
Harry Wu, who spent two months in China before returning 10 days ago,  showed what he claimed were photographs and videotape of Chinese prisons set  up to look like factories.
He said they produced toys, tools and pipes illegally exported to the  United States.
Wu, who heads the Laogai Research Foundation and supported by the AFL-CIO  labor union, refused to reveal how he got into the country to take the  pictures undetected.
The pictures and footage showed Zheijian prison No. 2 that Wu said houses  1,400 to 2,000 prisoners. The prison sign had been taken down and replaced  with a business-looking one that reads "Hangzhou Shenda Tool Factory."
One of the customers is the US-owned Cosmos Trading Company, he said  citing an unnamed Shenda official. The factory also shipped its chain hoists  to Fuchuen Machinery in Hong Kong, which sells them to the United States.
Wu also named Waxman Industries as a purchaser of products made by Chinese  prison labor. Its subsidiaries are Barnett Brass and Copper and Leran Copper  and Brass.
Wu also photographed what he said was the Laiyang Laogai Detachment with  some 2,000 prisoners that later sported a sign reading Shandong Steel Pipe  Factory which produces 100,000 tons of pipe annually, two-thirds of which is  exported.
The Baimaoling Prison Farm located in Anhui Province is also known as the  Shanghai No. 2 Labor Reform Brigade with an estimated 20,000 to 30,000  prisoners.
The complex manufactures stuffed animals and Christmas lights, said Wu who  returned with six stuffed animals that he said came from the prison, including  a fuzzy, gray squirrel with a tag marked "Rising Sun" and "Made in China."
He said he could not establish that the toys were actually going to the  United States, but noted it is one of the few countries requiring country of  origin labels.
