The French economy is heading for unexpectedly  strong recovery during the first half of the year, the official INSEE  statistical institute reported Friday.
It increased its forecast for growth of gross domestic product (GDP) in  the first half to 0.9 percent from the performance in the second half of last  year. In March it had set its growth forcecast at 0.7 percent and in December  at 0.5 percent.
INSEE said that the growth of unemployment should be "markedly weaker"  than it had forecast.
Meanwhile the customs service reported that a surge in exports to a  pre-recession level led to a trade surplus of 8.9 billion francs (1.57 billion  dollars) in March. In January the balance had shown a surplus of 1.9 billion  francs and in February 4.8 billion francs.
The balance for the first quarter showed a surplus of 15.7 billion francs.  This was in line with a forecast by the government that the balance for the  whole of 1994 would show a record surplus of 100 billion francs.
INSEE also published consumer price figures showing that prices had risen  by 0.3 percent in April after an increase of 0.2 percent in March. These were  final figures and they confirmed estimates given on May 11.
In the 12 months to the end of April prices had risen by 1.7 percent from  1.5 percent in the 12 months to the end of March.
On Thursday French banks had reduced their base rate by a quarter of a  point in the first such cut since the end of February and after the Bank of  France had reduced its two key rates slightly.
French Trade and Industry Minister Gerard Longuet said in Nancy, northeast  France, that "honestly, I think that we have touched the bottom of the  swimming pool and are now rising...I think that during the last quarter of  1994 we will see a decline of unemployment.
"The most spectacular aspect is the recovery in Germany. It was expected  in October and has arrived in the spring. So much the better because it  guarantees that we shall achieve more than 1.5 percent (growth) on average in  1994."
The government has so far forecast that the economy would grow by 1.4  percent this year, analysts noted.
Longuet said: "For the first time since 1990 in the first quarter the  balance between jobs created and jobs lost showed a net creation of 20,000,  thanks to services."
