Germany's Michael Stich saved two  match points to stun American world number one Pete Sampras here on Saturday  and pave the way for a final showdown with Spain at the World Team Cup.
His victory was soon followed up by Bernd Karbacher, who repeated his 1993  French Open win over Michael Chang, winning 6-4 6-2.
And although France beat Russia, Germany won through because they beat the  French in the round-robin phase. Spain routed Sweden 3-0.
Stich's 3-6 7-6 (9/7) 6-2 win handed Sampras only his third defeat of the  year and his first defeat in 30 matches.
But the American was left kicking himself after failing to take his  chances.
He admitted: "I had him but let him go. I didn't make him play the shotson  the match points. I feel I played well enough to win but I got a little  mentally and physically tired after losing the second set.
"My serve wasn't there today, but it's difficult to serve in these  conditions, with heavy balls and damp clay. In Paris, I need to serve a much  higher percentage but I've had a good preparation and have played a lot of  matches and I think I'm ready."
Stich said: "It's a big thing to win against Pete but I'm not going to get  over-excited. Every win is good for the confidence but it doesn't mean I'm  going to win the French Open because I beat him.
"I played a very good match and stayed in there and didn't give up.
It was Sampras, however, who hit the ball more crisply and controlled the  net. He also had the crowd roaring when he hit the ball around the net post  and then raced across court to send a perfect forehand flashing down the line.  In contrast, Stich sometimes looked casual.
Sampras had broken serve with a crosscourt backhand to lead 3-2 in the  second set and held a match point at 5-3 when Stich put a backhand wide under  no pressure.
But Sampras hit his return on Stich's second serve into the net and the  German broke back to 5-5 when his shot hit the net cord and trickled over.
Sampras held a second match point in the tiebreak when Stich nettted a  return at 5-5. Serving to save the match, Stich's nerves were stretched when a  string broke on his first serve, but Sampras again netted a second service  return.
Stich took firm control at last in the final set as Sampras often mis-hit,  was slow to the ball and had no depth on his shots, allowing Stich to pick off  easy winners.
He broke for 1-0 when Sampras netted a poor return and, although the  American held two break points for 2-2, he was denied by a fine crosscourt  forehand from Stich and another poor service return.
Stich extended his lead by breaking for 5-2 with a confident forehand  volley and his tenth ace gave him match point.
A forehand winner then gave him victory after 1hr 56mins.
Cedric Pioline gave France a 1-0 lead over Russia when he beat Alexander  Volkov 6-3 6-4 and then Andrei Chesnokov retired against Arnaud Boetsch with a  right thigh strain after losing the first set 6-2.
