The PLO will stick to the interim accord launching  autonomy but still seek a Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital, the  new self-rule authority said in remarks obtained here Sunday.
The authority said it is "completely bound by commitments undertaken by  the PLO" including the accord signed with Israel on May 4 in Cairo, as well as  the Declaration of Principles signed in Washington in September.
And it repeated its commitment to "all that is capable of creating peace  between the Palestinians and the Israelis."
The pledge followed a row over a speech by Arafat on May 10 in a  Johannesburg mosque in which he called for a "jihad" or holy war to recapture  Jerusalem, which was broadcast by Israeli radio two weeks ago.
A different part of the speech was then played by the radio last Monday in  which the Palestine Liberation Organisation chairman said "an agreement can be  made with an enemy and then broken as soon as possible."
Israel demanded a promise -- initially a written one -- from Arafat that  he would respect the autonomy agreements which contain a pledge to end  violence against the Jewish State.
Arafat said after the first row erupted that he had used the term jihad in  its religious sense not its political one.
In the second extract broadcast by the radio, he used an ancient Arabic  term for an agreement meaning tactical ceasefire even though he was speaking  in English.
Arafat's political advisor Ahmad Tibi said his remarks had been distorted  and there had been "misunderstandings of the Islamic religion."
The new authority, which will be in charge of running the autonomous areas  of the Gaza Strip and Jericho, calls in the text's preamble for Israel to  evacuate as soon as possible all Palestinian territory and dismantle the  Jewish settlements.
The document adopted at a meeting Friday has been ratified by the PLO's  executive committee, a reliable source said at the weekend.
Future negotiations would lead the way "for a total Israeli withdrawal  from the territories it occupied in 1967 to set up an independent state with  Jerusalem as its capital."
The status of Jerusalem -- holy to Christians, Jews and Moslems -- is not  due to be discussed until the start of the third year of the five-year interim  autonomy accord.
East Jerusalem was seized by Israel in the 1967 Middle East war after the  city had been partitioned between the Jews and the Arabs when Israel was  created in 1948.
Israel has ignored UN resolutions calling on it to hand back the  territories it seized including the old part of the holy city, Palestinians  say.
Before negotiations start with Israel, the Palestinain Authority said it  was determined "to stop any demographic or material changes" to Jerusalem and  break the "permanent isolation of the Arab town and its residents."
The meeting at the PLO's Tunis headquarters was also appointing people to  head various departments. Late Saturday 15 portfolios had been distributed out  of the 22 available.
So far 20 out of the 24 members have been appointed by Arafat, of which  only 18 have accepted to take part.
Militant groups such as the HAMAS, and the Popular and Democratic Fronts  for the Liberation of Palestine have refused to be members.
Meanwhile, the authority promised to set an example as a democratic body,  respecting human and civil rights, including freedom of religion and  expression, and equality between the sexes.
