A new salvo in the battle for control of Grand  Prix racing exploded at Barcelona on Saturday as Michael Schumacher took pole  position for Sunday's Spanish Grand Prix.
Max Mosley, president of the ruling Federation Internationale de  l'Automobile (FIA), issued a statement denying he had lost control to the  teams in an acrimonious meeting on Friday, when leading teams threatened to  boycott the race.
"The FIA owns and runs the Formula One World Championship. Teams will  participate on this basis or not at all," was Mosley's uncompromising  statement.
The teams had forced Mosley to concede that all the radical technical  changes he ordered two weeks ago should be reviewed by their engineers for  practicality, and possibly postponed beyond the very tight deadline he imposed.
Arrows team chief Jackie Oliver said Saturday the teams had agreed to meet  Mosley's overall objectives of reducing performance and increase car safety.
"But we will decided how they can be met, and we will be acting again  under the terms of the Concorde Agreement," said Oliver. The agreement  requires unanimous agreement from the teams for any sudden changes the FIA  wishes to make.
On Friday, some team sources said that Mosley had been told in no  uncertain terms by the rebel teams that he should stop playing a direct role  in Formula One.
He has said several times in the past he did not wish to be involved  beause of his wider activities in the FIAA, and repeated that on Friday here.
His statement took a tough position, however. He said he told the teams  "were necessary and would be enforced by the FIA. Any team which did not  comply would not be allowed to compete."
Mosley repeated that he would consider alternatives to his technical  proposals but said "suggestions that the FIA or any of its officers have made  concessions or abandoned powers are wholly false.
"At no time did the teams seek concessions or threaten not to run," he  said. "Had such a threat been made, I would have immediately invited those  concerned to carry it out."
