A Roman Catholic priest administered last rites  Thursday to a cancer-stricken Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who went home to her  family after deciding doctors could do nothing more for her.
Son John Kennedy Jr. and daughter Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg were with  their mother as relatives gathered at Onassis' Fifth Avenue apartment in  Manhattan arrived to visit after her release from the hospital.
"She is very, very sick and it's very sad," said congressman Joseph  Kennedy, son of the late Robert Kennedy. "There's a lot of love in her room  and in her apartment," he added.
Monsignor George Bardes of St. Thomas Moore's Roman Catholic church gave  her communion, heard her confession and administered the sacrament of  anointing the sick, church spokeswoman Margaret Peet said.
The 64-year-old Onassis, widow of slain US president John F. Kennedy and  Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis, checked in Monday at New York  Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
The hospital said she was suffering from "serious complications of her  malignant lymphoma" and received further diagnostic evaluation and treatment  before being released Wednesday.
"In accordance with the patient's clearly expressed wishes and with the  concurrence of her physicians, she has been discharged home," the statement  added.
Onassis revealed in February that she has non-Hodgkins lymphoma. The  former first lady also underwent surgery for a bleeding ulcer in April.
"She's home, she's comfortable and she has family around her. There was  nothing more to do for her at the hospital and she wanted to go home," said  Onassis' spokeswoman, Nancy Tuckerman.
"She will not have any further treatment," said Tuckerman. "The disease  has progressed and there is nothing they can do for her."
Tuckerman said doctors were unable to say what her prognosis was.  "Everyone is different. Obviously she's very ill."
"It is just another phase of her illness which she's facing with great  fortitude," Tuckerman said.
In Washington, President Bill Clinton said he and his wife Hillary had  been in touch with Onassis in recent days and receiving regular updates on her  condition.
"She's been quite wonderful to my wife, to my daughter and to all of us,"  said Clinton. "We're thinking about her and praying for her."
Senator Edward Kennedy, who flew in from Washington with his wife  Victoria, said "all the members of the family are distressed by the medical  reports." said."
