The Utah Jazz outlasted the upstart  Denver Nuggets 111-109 in overtime Saturday to take a 3-0 lead in their  best-of-seven National Basketball Association playoffs second-round series.
The Nuggets, the youngest team in the NBA, are now one game away from  elimination in a series no one expected them to reach in the first place, but  it took crucial overtime baskets from Utah's Jeff Hornacek and John Stockton  to give the Jazz the win.
Hornacek had 27 points, Stockton 24 and Karl Malone had 26 points for Utah  as the Jazz won their sixth straight playoff game.
LaPhonso Ellis had led a late surge that let Denver force the overtime,  finishing with 25 points. Dikembe Mutombo had 20 points, 13 rebounds and six  blocked shots for the Nuggets.
The teams were tied 98-98 at the end of regulation time. In overtime they  traded baskets until Hornacek's three-point shot with a minute and a half left  put the Jazz ahead for good.
Denver, who upset Western Conference top seeds Seattle in the first round,  will be fighting to stay alive in game four on Tuesday.
In Indianapolis, the Indiana Pacers took a 2-1 lead over Atlanta with a  101-81 victory.
The Pacers needed just 34 minutes to score their first 69 points of the  game -- matching the record-low total they posted in losing game two in  Atlanta on Thursday.
Rik Smits and Reggie Miller made the difference for the Pacers, Smits  scoring consistently from the inside and Miller from the outside.
"We did a better job of getting (Smits) the ball," said Pacers coach Larry  Brown. "We're trying to figure out ways we can get it to him early before help  gets there."
Atlanta coach Lenny Wilkins said: "We allowed Rik Smits down the block too  many times. You can't let people just take their position, and he did. He got  on the block and that hurt us."
Smits scored 18 of his 27 points in the first half as Indiana took command  early. They led 53-42 at halftime.
Miller added 16 for the Pacers, while Kevin Willis led the Hawks with just  14 points.
Even so, Willis was confident the Hawks could level the series on Tuesday  before heading back to Atlanta.
"I don't think we'll go back down 3-1," he said. "We'll come out with even  greater intensity. We have to move the ball on offense."
bb94
