China is viewing a split within a major Tibetan  religious order with enthusiasm, seeing in it the chance of weakening one of  the strongest voices of ethnic opposition to Beijing.
Reports of the rift have been given unusual prominence in the official  media, and according to analysts, Beijing hopes the squabble will lead to the  emergence of a pro-Beijing Tibetan leader akin to the former Panchen Lama, a  rival to the Dalai Lama.
In a despatch from the Tibetan capital Lhasa, published Monday on the  front page of the English-language China Daily, the Xinhua news agency  reported the latest salvo in a dispute over the true identity of the  reincarnation of one of Tibetan Buddhism's most powerful leaders, the 16th  Gyalwa Karmapa.
The Karmapa is the head of the Karma Kagyu lineage of Tibetan Buddhism,  which has its Tibetan headquarters in the Tsurphu monastery in Lhasa. The 16th  Karmapa fled Tibet in 1959 when Chinese troops moved in and established the  order's headquarters-in-exile at the Rumtek monastery in Sikkim.
The conflict surfaced in 1992, when two regents from the Rumtek monastery,  Tai Situpa and Gyaltsap, identified a seven-year-old boy living in Tibet,  Ugyen Thinlay Dorji, as the reincarnation of the 16th Karmapa, who died in  1981.
However a third regent, Sharmapa Rimpoche, identified a rival candidate,  setting off a virtual leadership battle within the Kagyu order.
The Dalai Lama and the Chinese Religious Affairs Bureau have both accepted  Dorji as the true reincarnation, marking the first time the exiled Tibetan  spiritual leader and Beijing have agreed on a spiritual successor to a  deceased lama since the failed 1959 Tibetan uprising against Chinese rule.
The Xinhua despatch cited a statement from the Tsurphu monastery which  affirmed Dorji as the 17th Karmapa and labelled Sharmapa's choice, Tenzing  Chentze, as a "fraud who will never be recognised by the monastery or by the  religious people in Tibet."
Sharmapa had written fake documents and privately designated Chentze as  the true reincarnation before smuggling him abroad, the statement said.
The row has been seen as a factional dispute for control of the Kagyu  school as well as the sizeable assets belonging to the Rumtek monastery in  Sikkim.
Speculation that Beijing approved the choice of Dorji because it saw the  chance to nurture influence with the future leader of a major school of  Tibetan Buddhism who could then be played off the Dalai Lama, has been fuelled  by China's reluctance to allow Dorji to travel to Sikkim for a coronation.
A spokesman with the London-based Office of Tibet, run by the exiled  Tibetan movement, said China's interest in the dispute was an attempt to sow  confusion and discord within the order.
"The Chinese are clearly trying to use the issue for their own political  ends," the spokesman said.
"At the same time, they would like to exert influence over the Karmapa who  is widely respected inside and outside Tibet," he added.
Beijing is leading the search for the reincarnation of Tibet's second most  powerful leader, the Panchen Lama, who stayed in Tibet after the Dalai Lama  fled in 1959 and worked with the communist party and supported the Chinese  presence in Tibet until his death in 1989.
