Five countries proposed a  compromise whale sanctuary Wednesday that they believe could settle the whale  protection dispute between Japan and a coalition of 10 countries led by France.
Delegates from Chile, Mexico, Switzerland, Sweden and Monaco floated the  idea of a smaller sanctuary than the one being sought by France and its allies.
The newly proposed safe haven, which would be based on an Antarctic animal  protection accord already in effect, emerged at the 46th meeting of the  International Whaling Commission (IWC), meeting in this Pacific coast resort  to try to update regulations for hunting whales.
France has proposed a total ban on hunting whales below the 40th parallel  in Antarctica. The 40th parallel circles the globe south of Buenos Aires,  Santiago and south of Australia and the southern tip of Africa.
The French-proposed sanctuary is designed to protect the 1,000 remaining  blue whales, which grow to 30 meters (100 feet) and can weigh 150 tonnes, and  some 12,000 humpbacked whales.
The no-hunting zone would also benefit the much smaller minke whale, which  has replaced the blue and humpbacked as a target of Japanese and Norwegian  whalers.
The Japanese said such a ban actually would be harmful to the environment.  Japan estimates the minke population at 750,000 and said the animals eat  roughly five times the amount of fish humans catch.
If the minke population is not managed the environmental balance will be  thrown off, the Japanese said. They are backed by Norway and several Caribbean  countries that receive Japanese economic aid.
Kazuo Shima, Japan's representative to the IWC conference said, "It's  important to protect dwindling resources, but with regards to the minke whale,  with an estimated population of 750,000, those resources must be exploited."
Japan proposes to hunt up to 2,000 minke whales and said that would not  threaten the species, prized as a dining delicacy in Japan.
Observers at the summit said member countries could pass a compromise  before the meeting ends Thursday, possibly agreeing to phase in the French  proposal over an extended time period.
Shima has said Japan would favor a compromise among all the proposals for  whale sanctuaries put forth at the meeting.
Chile, which does not want a sanctuary to include its territorial waters,  favors establishing a protection zone between 45 and 60 degrees latitude.
Seventy-five percent of the votes of the 31 countries represented at the  meeting must approve a proposal for it to pass.
In addition to commercial hunting, whales currently are under threat from  environmental changes, such as the destruction of the ozone layer protecting  Earth from the sun's ultraviolet rays.
