Financial markets were edgy Tuesday after the  Federal Reserve's move to raise short-term interest rates, expected in the  morning, did not materialize.
Investors expected the Fed to raise the federal funds rate -- the  overnight interbank loan rate -- by as much as half a percentage point, and  the discount rate by a half percentage point.
The Fed has raised the federal funds rate by a quarter percentage point  three times since early February, pushing it to 3.75 percent.
However, it has not touched the discount rate, which is at 3.5 percent.
The Fed's Open Market Committee, which sets US monetary policy for the  coming months, opened its closed-door meeting here at 9:00 a.m. (1300 GMT).
But market anxiety rose as the typical time for Fed interventions, 11:30  a.m., passed without a sign of action. The central bank often does not  announce its interventions, letting market behavior show a move has been made.
Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan took the unusual step of announcing the Fed's  first hike in short-term interest rates in five years, on February 4.  Greenspan tried to assure financial markets that the move was a preemptive  strike against any inflationary pressure in the growing economy, emphasizing  there was no indication of inflation in current economic conditions.
But the quarter percentage point hike in the federal funds rate, boosting  it to 3.25 percent, spooked the markets anyway, triggering a selloff in stocks  and bonds.
The credit tightening ended a five-year period of low interest rates which  significantly fueled the United States' strong economic recovery.
In addition to upsetting the markets, the Fed move provoked a sharp  reaction from the White House, which feared that tighter credit would stifle  the economic recovery.
Economists, meanwhile, emphasized that the economy was strong enough to  accommodate the series of credit tightening.
President Bill Clinton disagreed with them, until Tuesday.
Clinton said short-term interest rates could be raised without slowing  down the US economy.
"There is clearly some room for short-term interest (rates) over the rate  of inflation that won't slow down our economic growth," he told reporters at  the White House.
Clinton's remark, which showed he also expects a rate hike, was clearly  aimed at reassuring financial markets roiled by the Fed moves, which they fear  will throttle economic growth.
"First of all, if this happens, it's because we have growth," Clinton said,  referring to another rate increase.
"Let's get the fundamental facts here," he said. "We have more jobs, lower  inflation and a lower deficit, and expectations for high growth this year,  good growth."
"I make a policy generally not to comment on what the Fed does," he added,  prefacing his unexpected remark that there was "room" for another rate hike.
On the New York Stock Exchange, the Dow Jones industrial average was up  11.97 points at 3,683.47 at 11:00 a.m. (1500 GMT).
Stocks also benefited from a dip in long-term interest rates on the  inflation-sensitive bond market. Interest rates on the main 30-year Treasury  bond averaged 7.42 percent, down from 7.44 percent late Monday.
On the currency market, the dollar was under pressure, trading at about  12:45 p.m. (1645 GMT) at 1.6645 German marks, down from 1.6735 late Monday,  and at 104.20 yen (104.75).
