The UN Commission on Human Rights will Wednesday  appoint a special rapporteur to investigate the slaughter in Rwanda and  discuss ways to end the bloodbath, diplomatic sources said here Tuesday.
Speaking on the first day of a special session of the comission here, the  sources said it would also ask African nations to supply new contingents for  the UN mission in the war-torn country. Nigeria, Cameroon, Tanzania, and, on  certain conditions, Australia, have agreed to do so.
Jose Ayala Lasso, the Commissioner for Human Rights commissioner, has  called for "effective international action" to prevent further atrocities in  Rwanda, where up to half a million people have died in an ethnic bloodbath.
Following a visit to the embattled Rwandan capital Kigali, Ayala Lasso on  Tuesday made a new appeal for the international community to "stop the  infernal cycle of violence" and protect civilians in the central African  nation.
"Every day, every hour, every minute which passes lengthens the list of  innocent victims of a war written into the darkest pages of the history of  mankind.
"Never since the end of World War Two have we deplored so many deaths --  200,000, 300,000 or 500,000 -- in such a short time."
Relief workers and refugees say most of the victims of the carnage are  members of the Tutsi minority or moderate Hutus butchered by extremist Hutu  militias since the death of Hutu president Juvenal Habyarimana on April 6,  apparently in a rocket attack on his plane.
His death sent the country back into civil war despite a peace agreement  last August that was to bring the mainly Tutsi rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front  (RPF) into the government.
In a report to the commission, Ayala Lasso has stressed that "the authors  of the atrocities must be made aware that they cannot escape personal  responsibility for criminal acts carried out, ordered or condoned."
But sources here said the commission was not expected during its session  to propose the creation of a special war crimes tribunal at this stage,  according to the motion before it.
Instead, the 53 delegations were thought likely to call on the special  rapporteur to go to Rwanda and report back within four weeks on the bloodshed  and make recommendendations to end it.
The draft resolution calls on the rapporteur "to gather and compile  systematically information on possible violations of human rights in Rwanda  including those which may constitute war crimes, and to make this information  available to the UN Secretary-General."
It further "notes that such information could be of possible future use in  prosecuting violators of international humanitarian law."
The German and US delegation chiefs, Gerhaud Baum and Geraldine Ferraro,  both stressed to journalists Tuesday that atrocities had been committed by all  sides in the Rwandan conflict.
Last week, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees accused the RPF rebels of  torturing and killing civilians as the Hutus had done, according to  "consistent refugee reports."
But UN spokeswoman Sylvana Foa on Tuesday said: "I understand the RPF was  very upset (about the charge). It seems to have calmed down. They were  obviously maverick troops now under control."
As she spoke, relief officials in the Rwandan capital Kigali, which is  under siege by the RPF, said thousands of Hutus were fleeing the capital for  fear of bloody reprisals by the rebels for the massacre of Tutsis.
With a shaky truce more or less holding, a UN special envoy flew to Kigali  to discuss the deployment of 5,500 troops the United Nations hopes to muster,  in a bid to protect civilians and safeguard relief convoys.
