The late Gilles Villeneuve would be  proud of his son, the fastest rookie ever in the Indianapolis 500.
The former Formula One racer, killed in a 1983 crash in Canada, has passed  his love of racing to a new generation.
"You always retain some things from your parents," Villenueve said.  "Hopefully I retained the good things."
Villeneuve was the fourth-fastest qualifier for Sunday's Indianapolis 500.  He will start on row two, directly behind another second-generation driver,  pole sitter Al Unser Jnr. But unlike Unser, Canada's Villeneuve has had to  overcome tragedy.
"My father died when I was 12 and I didn't get any encouragement from my  mother," Villeneuve said. "It was maybe the best way to learn. You make your  own mistakes. But I always knew I would race. No question. I was always in  fast sports, like skiing or motor racing."
Villeneuve qualified at 226.259 mph (362.014 km/h) in a Cosworth-powered  Reynard chassis. His speed was 4.5 mph (7.1 km/h) faster than any other Indy  rookie ever timed and surpassed his wildest dreams.
"I never expected to be this fast," he said. "I was flat out in  qualifying. It feels great to be on the second row."
Villeneuve is one of nine first-time Indy starters, but the only one in  the first four rows. He is also the only newcomer with strong Formula One  ties.
Villeneuve raced from 1989-1991 in the Italian Formula Three series, then  spent 1992 on Japan's Formula Three circuit. He discovered the Indy-car  circuit while in Japan.
"Until two years ago, you hardly heard about Indy-car in Europe,"  Villeneuve said. "I couldn't read the papers in Japan so I didn't read about  it there either. I saw the Indy 500 there for the first time in 1992 and it  was quite exciting, even if I fell asleep because it was five in the morning.  I woke up for the last lap, so it was OK."
Villeneuve raced in the Formula Atlantic series last season and announced  his Indy-car bid eight months ago.
"I had wanted to come here a year earlier, but I didn't want to make a  stupid decision and not go out with a top-level team behind me," Villeneuve  said.
He drives for Australian native Barry Green, whose team is based here.
"The team is a winner. I'm the only inexperienced person," Villeneuve  said. "What's important to going fast here is working well with the car and  Barry has made this a most comfortable car."
Villeneuve made his debut in Australia, finish 17th after bumping the car  of rival Stefan Johansson of Sweden in a fight for fifth place.
Villeneuve qualified second-fastest at the second race of the year in  Phoenix on his 23rd birthday, but became involved in a spectacular crash  during the race. Villeneuve slammed into the car of Japan's Hiro Matsushita  against the outer wall, slicing his rival's car in half. Neither was seriously  hurt, but both could have been.
"That naturally happens," Villeneuve said. "It doesn't hurt you  physically. And if you have to think about it, you can't forget it."
Villeneuve has put the moment aside, finishing 15th at Long Beach the  following week in his first complete Indy-car race. His goals for Indy are  obvious, even though no Indy rookie since Graham Hill in 1966 has taken the  checkered flag here.
"I'm here to win and I've got the car that can do it," Villeneuve said.  "I'm looking forward to race day."
