A virulent, possibly mutant killer bacteria that  eats its way through human tissue has claimed at least five lives in Britain  since January, it emerged Tuesday.
Official medical reports also showed cases of a condition called  necrotising fasciitis, caused by streptococcus-A bacteria, throughout the  country, from Scotland to the south of England, not just in the small area of  Gloucestershire earlier thought.
The latest victims to emerge were Terry Bowden, 39, of the southeast  county of Kent, who died last January, 36 hours after being admitted to  Lewisham Hospital, and an unidentified Hertfordshire woman who died last month.
Lewisham Hospital spokesman Robin Scott stressed the disease was rare.
"Occasionally, in fact very rarely, this bacterium does cause significant  life-threatening disease and that is of course what we're seeing now," he said.
Details emerged as a team of microbiologists examined tissue samples from  the victims of the bacterium, which experts said could be a variety of a  streptococcus bacteria which had been mutated into a killer by a viral attack.
They said the new bacterium produces toxic chemicals which attack the  sheaths around muscles and quickly destroy tissue.
Government scientists said the seven cases of necrotising fasciitis  reported around Gloucester were statistically unusual, but could still be a  chance occurrance.
They said normally about 10 cases of the disease were reported in Britain  annually, two or three of them fatal.
There have been a total of 12 cases of the disease in Britain reported so  far this year, five of them fatal.
What was particularly puzzling, said the experts, was that laboratory  tests showed different strains of the bacterium were involved.
Cleo McNulty, a consulting microbiologist with the Gloucestershire Public  Health Laboratory, said the outbreak "may be just a resurgence of a more  virulent type of this group that may have been around before the 1940s.
"With a lot of infections you get waves, up and down, of resurgence, and  we're now probably going into an up stage where we're getting more of this  particular virulent type."
McNulty said the bacterium in question "is carried by about 10 percent of  the population without any symptoms.
"Many may just complain of a sore throat. It's only rarely that the  organism gets into the blood stream and then may settle in damaged tissue."
She said there was speculation on why there was such massive tissue  damage in a relatively minute number of patients.
Either the bacteria "are colonized and infected by a much more virulent  strain that produces more toxins, or the patient may be immunosuppressed, that  is, not able to cope with the infection," said McNulty.
One patient was reported in "stable but critical condition" in a  Gloucestershire hospital.
Meanwhile a victim who recovered said in an interview with The Times she  had lived through "everyone's worst nightmare: watching something eat my body."
Roseanne Miller, a 41-year-old nurse who developed the infection after  undergoing a hysterectomy, said infected flesh had to be cut away from her  abdomen and groin, and the wound left open for 10 days while surgeons  confirmed the infection had been eliminated.
