The Crimean parliament voted Friday to  reinstate a 1992 constitution in a move that amounted to a declaration of  independence from Ukraine.
The command of the disputed Black Sea Fleet, which is based in the Crimean  port of Sevastopol, responded immediately by warning that it "would not remain  on the sidelines of the process that is developing" and called on both sides  to seek a political settlement.
Crimean deputies voted 69 to two in favor of reinstating constitutional  provisions that establish treaty relations between Kiev and Crimea and also  allow for Crimean citizenship as well as the establishment of a local militia  force.
In Kiev, spokesman Viktor Stelmakh said that Ukrainian President Leonid  Kravchuk would ask the national parliament to declare the vote "illegal" and  acting Prime Minister Efim Zviagilisky called for the introduction of  presidential rule in Crimea.
"I am confident that the (Ukrainian) parliament would support such a  measure,"  Zviagilisky said.
Tatar deputies in Crimea abstained from the vote, stating that the text  was "illegal," as did a handful of communist deputies in the regional  legislature.
Crimea, where the 2.5 population is 65 percent Russian, has been moving  towards closer ties with Moscow since the January election of Russian  nationalist Yuri Meshkov to the presidency.
Relations between the Crimean leadership and Kiev have also been strained  over the Russian-Ukrainian dispute for control of the Black Sea Fleet with  local leaders favoring Russian ownership of the armada.
In a statement, the press service of the fleet said that "political  instability was developing in areas where the fleet was based" and noted that  the current situation "understandably provoked concern on the part of the  officers and the command."
"The command of the fleet calls on all those involved in the actual events  in Crimea to do everything possible to resolve contentious issues by political  means," the statement said.
The Crimean vote came despite warnings from Kravchuk that he would take  firm measures against the Crimean leadership if the constitution was  reinstated, stating that there would be "serious consequences" to such a  decision.
Vyacheslav Lebedev, spokesman for the Crimean president, said a  parliamentary delegation would travel to Kiev to hold talks but that "there  was no compromise possible."
"The  majority of Crimea's residents reject Kiev's authority", he said.
In Moscow, an aide to President Boris Yeltsin described the Crimean crisis  as "a war of nerves" and said Russia should make diplomatic efforts to defuse  the tension, Interfax reported.
"We must resort to diplomatic means and not threats to prevent an  escalation of the situation," said adviser Emil Pain.
Kiev ordered Thursday the takeover of local police forces in Crimea,  triggering claims by Crimean officials of a "military coup" and heightening  tensions in the republic.
Kravchuk issued a decree appointing two new officials to head the security  and interior ministry forces but the Crimean parliament rejected the decision  and voted to name its own candidates to the post.
The move came ahead of a Ukrainian presidential election scheduled for  June 26 which Kravchuk is expected to lose and has been trying to postpone.
