Ukraine has written to the United Nations and NATO,  where it recently joined the Partnership for Peace program, warning that moves  by its secessionist Crimean republic threatened regional peace and stability,  ITAR-TASS reported Saturday.
The message signed by Ukrainian Foreign Miniter Anatoli Zlenko said  Ukraine "reserved the right," should the situation deteriorate, to take all  necessary measures to safeguard its borders, but did not state what these  would be.
It called the move Friday by Crimean deputies, who restored a 1992  constitution in a move tantamount to a declaration of independence from Kiev,  an "illegal decision" that was both a threat to the Ukrainian constitution and  the country's territorial integrity.
Ukrainian lawmakers late Friday gave the pro-Russian Crimean assembly 10  days to repeal their action and "conform with the laws and constitution of  Ukraine."
The lawmakers did not say what measures would be taken against Crimea if  its assembly refuses to reverse its decision.
The foreign minister's note was sent to both UN Secretary General Boutros  Boutros-Ghali and the UN Security Council, the Conference on Security and  Cooperation in Europe and North Atlantic Treaty Organization headquarters.
"Peace and stability in the region are threatened and this could have  serious consequences given the current situation in this part of the  continent," Zlenko's letter said.
It also warned that the "separatist aspirations of Crimea's authorities  could lead to a new erosion of the basic principles underlying European  stability -- the principles of territorial integrity and the inviolability of  existing borders," its aid.
The letter stressed that Ukraine reserved the right, "in case the  situation deteriorates because of irresponsible actions by extremist forces in  Crimea, to take all necessary measurs to uconditionally guarantee the  territorial integrity of the state in line with the constitution and in  observance of the norms of international law."
Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk has warned that Kiev "has enought  power to force respect" of Ukrainian sovereignty.
