Singapore Tuesday dropped vandalism charges  against an American teenager who like a schoolmate caned last month would have  faced a mandatory lashing if convicted.
Stephen Freehill, a 17-year-old from Chicago, hugged his mother and sister  after a brief appearance in the Subordinate Court.
Prosecutor Jennifer Marie told District Judge Koo Oon Soo that the  government was dropping the vandalism charges as it could not depend on  testimony from accomplices.
The decision averts a second potentially more damaging clash with the  United States, which strongly protested the caning of Freehill's schoolmate,  18-year-old Michael Fay, earlier this month.
Freehill was instead fined 800 dollars (516 US) after pleading guilty to  keeping stolen property, including taxi number plates and a lift sign.
"The statements of accomplices as witnesses would be unreliable for (the  purposes) of prosecution," Marie told the court.
Police said earlier that they were reviewing charges against Freehill  because they could no longer depend on corroborating testimony from his  schoolmate Fay and Hong Kong teenager Shiu Chi Ho, both serving jail terms for  vandalism.
Fay received four lashes of the cane on his buttocks earlier this month  despite protests by the US government and President Bill Clinton.
Shiu, 17, sentenced to 12 lashes and eight months jail, is awaiting a  decision on appeals for clemency.
Freehill was originally charged with five counts of vandalism and mischief.
Randy Chan, Fay's mother, said that Fay seemed all right after visiting  her son in jail Tuesday.
"He seems to be okay. We weren't able to see the wounds but he said  (prison officials) have been treating them for him," Chan told reporters  outside Queenstown Remand Prison.
Chan spent 40 minutes in jail accompanied by her second husband Marco and  an unidentified female friend of Fay's.
They are the only outsiders, after US embassy official John Coe, who have  seen the teenager from Kettering, Ohio, after his controversial May 5 caning.
Singapore's Prisons Department has denied claims by George Fay, the  teenager's father, and his US lawyer Theodore Simon that the lashing bloodied  Michael Fay, leaving him in constant pain and unable to sit during the May 6  meeting with Coe.
Fay was ordered caned six times after he pleaded guilty to spray painting  cars, pelting them with eggs and keeping stolen property, but the Singapore  government reduced his sentence to four lashes after Clinton sought clemency.
He is also serving a four-month jail term but is expected to be granted  early release on June 21 for good behaviour.
Fay, Freehill and Shiu were among five children of expatriate workers who  were arrested in October last year after local newspapers reported several  cases of vandalism.
Fay pleaded guilty to government charges, but later said he was coerced  into confessing crimes he did not commit.
US newspapers, legislators and human rights groups have criticised  Singapore for caning the teenager despite their appeals that he be spared the  rod.
