Government troops in western Burma have killed  some 52 Moslem insurgents, captured eight others and seized a large number of  weapons since late April, an official newspaper reported Sunday.
Rangoon lost four soldiers during the battles in Maungtaw township, where  Burma shares a border with Bangladesh, according to state-run New Light of  Myanmar.
Members of the Rchingya Solidarity Organization (RSO) had entered Maungtaw  from Bangladesh in the final week of April in order to plant bombs and set  fire to villages in the area, a detailed report of the fighting said.
On April 28, nine of 12 bombs which had been planted around Maungtaw  exploded, destroying one fire truck, ruining several buildings and injuring  four people in the process, the report said.
On the same day, some 80 RSO guerrillas crossed into southern Maungtaw and  attacked two villages, burning down 26 homes, killing one person and injuring  a 17-year-old girl during a two-day rampage, the paper added.
Nearly two weeks later, on May 10, an RSO contingent of 40 guerrillas  attacked in western Maungtaw, this time destroying 13 houses in one village,  the report said.
Rangoon mobilized a 26,000-strong force of border troops, police and local  militia to surround the terrorists, the report said.
In addition to capturing eight men who were allegedly responsible for the  bombings, soldiers seized material, including 10 40mm bombs, 1,418 mines, 522  hand grenades, some 3,611 rounds of ammunition, five radio sets and two  schooners, the state-run paper said.
The report said the RSO continued to maintain bases in Bangladesh where  they recruited and trained youths from refugee camps and supplied them with  weapons and demolition equipment supplied by other terrorist organizations.
The RSO is one of several Moslem insurgent groups still active in Burma's  Arakan state, which adjoins Bangladesh.
More than 250,000 Moslem families fled their homes and crossed the border  in 1991, alleging government persecution which the military has denied.
Under a bilateral agreement between Burma and Bangladesh in 1992, nearly  55,000 of the refugees have been repatriated, with Rangoon saying it is ready  to accept the rest, officials here have said.
