Fierce artillery duels broke out just north of  this key port city on Tuesday as southern forces battled to hold back an  advance by troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh, witnesses said.
Saleh's northern forces and the southerners of Vice President Ali Salem  al-Baid were battling with heavy artillery just 30 kilometers (18 miles) north  of Aden, they said.
There was also heavy fighting around al-Anad airbase, that Saleh's forces  captured on Monday, opening the way for a push toward Baid's stronghold Aden.
"Fierce battles have raged around Al-Anad since the early morning," said  one of the witnesses. The airbase is 50 kilometres (30 miles) from here.
The southerners, backed by warplanes were "trying to push back the  advance" Saleh's forces, said the witness.
The northerners were also trying to break through the eastern front, but  the southerners where still holding their defensive line, 40 kilometers (24  miles) from the city, travelers said.
Northern shells fired from the east had fallen less than 25 kilometers (15  miles) from Aden, they added.
Hundreds of southern troops were seen heading towards the front along main  roads on Tuesday, while others, looking tired and demoralised, where heading  back to the city.
The northern forces seemed better equipped and more organized than their  southern rivals, witnesses said.
Saleh's troops, backed by tanks, artillery and anti-aircraft batteries,  captured the Al-Anad base on Monday, an AFP photographer said, although the  southerners later claimed to have recaptured it.
The two sides slid into civil war on May 5, after months of arguing over  how to run the country, formed from the unification in May 1990 of  conservative North Yemen and poorer, Marxist South Yemen.
On the diplomatic front, an Arab League delegation left Sanaa on Tuesday  after failing in its mission to broker a ceasefire.
And Saleh spoke by telephone with King Fahd of neighbouring Saudi Arabia  on Monday night, the Saudi official agency SPA said.
The Saudis and the Egyptians have stepped up their efforts over the past  days to bring an end to the civil war in Yemen.
Opposition parties led by vice-president Ali Salem al-Baid, the southern  leader, announced here early Tuesday they would form a High Council for  National Salvation.
Abdel Rahman al-Jifri, who chairs a bloc of five opposition parties, told  AFP the council would function wherever it had influence, not just in southern  Yemen.
"In no way does this mean the formation of a government of South Yemen,"  Jifri said.
He said the decision to form a High Council was prompted by the  constitutional vacuum and the illegality of the political institutions in the  country.
