India's diamond exports overshot expectations and  grew 27 percent in the last financial year, helping maintain the country's  leading position in the business, exporters said Tuesday.
The Diamond Exporters' Association said cut and polished stones worth 3.64  billion dollars were exported by India in the fiscal year to March 31 on the  back of a rising demand for low-priced diamonds.
The performance exceeded the government's expectations that exports would  grow 22 percent to three billion dollars.
"Exports have grown by 27 percent. This is the first time we have had such  a high level of growth," said K.Y. Padmanabhan of the association.
India retained its top position in the world diamond exports, accounting  for 43 percent of its value and 82 percent of the volume, Padmanbhan said.
A continuing global recession had turned out to be a hidden blessing for  Indian diamond processors, unrivalled in polishing roughs of low quality, he  said, adding that customers were preferring low-priced diamonds.
"We sell the lowest-priced diamonds in the world. Nobody can beat us in  this," Padmanabhan said.
"A diamond exported from India fetched 260 dollars per carat last year.  That was the cheapest diamond you could buy. On the other end, an  Israeli-polished diamond fetched 965 dollars per carat on an average," he said.
Competition is expected from diamond cutting and polishing units in  Mauritius, Sri Lanka, Thailand and China, but it would be a long time before  they catch up with India, Padmanabhan said.
"Indian exporters and processors have built up a superior marketing  network all over the world through expatriate Indian merchants and jewellers  in various countries.
"Indian merchants have processing units even in Israel, Thailand, Belgium  and Sri Lanka. It would be at least 20 years before any competition catches up  with us," he said.
India has set a target of earning four billion dollars from the trade in  the current fiscal year which exporters believe they would meet easily. The  United States is the largest buyer of Indian diamonds, followed by Japan and  Germany.
