The Budapest World Expo 1996, planned by  Hungary's outgoing conservative government, could be scaled down or even  cancelled altogether by the new majority expected to take power after Sunday's  elections, party sources said Wednesday.
The government applied to the Paris-based International Bureau of  Expositions (BIE) in 1990 to hold a World Expo jointly with Vienna in 1996.
But both the Hungarian Socialist Party (HSP), which won the first round of  general elections on May 8, and the runner-up liberal Alliance of Free  Democrats (SZDSZ), expected to join a coalition government, see the fair as an  unwanted economic burden.
"One of the first tasks of the new government would be to decide whether  to stage the Expo at all," SZDSZ head Ivan Peto told AFP.
He argued that if research found that potential returns of international  fame and finance from the Expo were smaller than its costs, the new cabinet  should abandon the plan altogether.
Former communist finance minister Laszlo Bekesi, currently the main  economic expert for the socialists and likely candidate for prime minister,  said that Hungary could not afford to cancel the Expo.
He pointed out, however, that the original idea of an Expo based on  enterpreneurial investment was not feasible any more "because the cabinet  failed to create the conditions for that," he told the Nepszabadsag daily  newspaper.
The outgoing government's failure to specify what sort of concessional and  property rights it wanted to accord potential Expo investors would oblige the  next cabinet to pay the fair's costs, he said.
The new government's first task would therefore be to fully review state  economic obligations, including the hidden restructuring of state funds in  favour of the Expo, he added.
"The secret of the atomic bomb is nothing compared to how secretive local  Expo organisers are on the project," Peto said.
In 1990, the government allocated 17 billion forints (212.5 million  dollars at 1990 prices but only 165 million dollars at current rates) for the  Expo, while total costs of the fair are calculated at 144 billion forints at  1990 price levels (1.4 billion dollars at current rates).
The fair, entitled "Communications for a Better World", is to be staged on  a 80-hectare (197 acre) site in the south of Budapest between May and October  1996, and expects to draw some 12 million visitors, according to organisers.
The current cabinet actually abandoned the Expo project in 1991 after the  Budapest municipal council voted it down twice arguing that neither budgetary  funds earmarked for the purpose nor incoming investment offers would be  sufficient.
But a parliamentary vote following pressure from domestic private  enterpreneurs overturned the decision.
