Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams has urged the  British government to respond positively to a document detailing demands for  clarification of the Anglo-Irish joint declaration.
The document was transmitted to the British government by the Irish  government Friday on behalf of Sinn Fein.
"Sinn Fein has a clear view of what is required to achieve a lasting peace  founded on democratic principles. We have a peace strategy aimed at moving the  situation in that direction," Adams said in a statement.
He added: "It is necessary that the replies from London to our questions  properly and honestly clarify these issues so that the peace process can be  advanced."
"It is important that the British government responds positively to this  initiative and answers the questions put to it in a direct and comprehensive  manner."
A statement issued by Northern Ireland Secretary Patrick Mayhew earlier  Friday said the British government would study and make public Sinn Fein's  demands for clarification of the December 15 Anglo-Irish declaration.
"It is clearly in the public interest for people to know what these  questions are. We shall make them public with our comments within a matter of  days once we have had an opportunity to give them proper consideration," his  statement said.
The Anglo-Irish declaration, signed in December by British Prime Minister  John Major and his Irish counterpart Albert Reynolds, offered Sinn Fein, the  Irish Republican Army's political wing, a full place in peace talks once the  IRA renounced violence -- an offer that was not definitively accepted or  rejected, pending clarification.
Sinn Fein previously insisted on face-to-face meetings with government  officials, apparently probing for resumption of the type of secret contacts it  held with British officials during most of 1993.
London, meanwhile, had hitherto refused to give any clarification, saying  that the declaration was self-explanatory.
But Mayhew hinted last month to an American congressional committee that  he would consider responding to specific queries.
Friday's exchange is likely to raise hopes that republican leaders may be  edging closer to declaring an end to their 25-year armed campaign opposing  British rule in Northern Ireland.
