Haiti's army-backed president named a  cabinet of government bureaucrats and a Canadian resident Monday after the  country's major political parties refused to join his government.
The announcement came hours after the outgoing prime minister, Robert  Malval, urged government employees to refuse to obey the government of Emile  Jonassaint, 81, who was sworn in last week by the military government that  overthrew exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in October 1991.
Jonaissant has won no international recognition.
No prime minister was named and Jonassaint is expected to assume that role.
Malval, the caretaker prime minister, insisted his government, which is  loyal to Aristide, was Haiti's only constitutional leadership.
"The outgoing government which represents constitutional legality is  hereby informing you that any instruction coming from (Jonaissant) is null and  that you have the right and even the duty to ignore it," Malval said in a  press conference at his home here.
In New York, officials announced that a UN team would travel to the  Dominican Republic Monday to determine how to tighten the UN embargo on Haiti.
An international fuel and arms embargo was established in October after a  plan to return Aristide to power collapsed. And a UN embargo banning the  import of everything but food and medical supplies goes into effect May 21  unless Haiti's military has left power.
The first embargo proved hard to enforce because of smuggling from the  Dominican Republic, which shares the island of Hispanola with Haiti.
With the major political parties refusing to join Jonassaint's government,  the cabinet groups mostly senior government bureaucrats.
Their mission will be to "manage the embargo and keep the national boat  afloat in the exceptional circumstances that Haiti faces with the unjust  hostility of the international community," a government source told AFP.
A hardline nationalist, Willio Noailles, was named minister of the  interior and national defense, a post held by active or retired military over  the past eight years.
Charles David, a journalist who currently lives in Montreal, was named  foreign affairs minister. David is the brother of Senator Placide David and  writes for the Montreal daily La Presse.
A career lawyer, Rigaud Duplan, was named minister of the economy and  finance. He has been the head of the ministry's legal services for a decade.
Maud Thimothee, a sociologist and former cabinet official for centrist  Marc Bazin, who opposed Jonassaint's inauguration, was named minister of  social affairs.
Malval also urged the army chief, General Raoul Cedras, to resign. Malval  had been sworn in as a compromise prime minister last year as part of an  agreement to bring Aristide back in October but the military abrogated the  accord.
Malval, whose bodyguards were withdrawn Monday, also said he was holding  General Cedras "personally responsible" for his safety and the safety of his  family and cabinet.
"To General Cedras, I say: morally you are not worthy of the title of  commander in chief of the armed forces of Haiti," Malval said.
"As the top official in the army, you are the guardian of the institution  and you have helped them steal," he added.
