A Jewish settler said Monday that he and the  right-wing were behind the disclosure of PLO leader Yasser Arafat's remarks in  a Johannesburg mosque that has stirred up a row over Palestinian self-rule.
"I was in South Africa and heard a short quote from Yasser Arafat on a  radio," said Nat Rosenwasser, a settler in the occupied West Bank who is from  South Africa.
"I tried to find out more and managed to get hold of the cassette from a  journalist and brought it to Israel," he told AFP.
Rosenwasser gave it to Israeli radio which last week broadcast an extract  of Arafat calling for a "jihad," or holy war, to liberate Jerusalem, stirring  an initial protest from Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin.
"But nobody noticed the rest of the speech, when he spoke of violating the  (self-rule) accord, like the Prophet Mohammad did," he said.
Rosenwasser said the cassette then passed from hand to hand until an  expert on Islam, a figure close to the right-wing which opposes Palestinian  autonomy, found more ammunition against Arafat in the May 10 speech.
The government late Monday defeated a right-wing censure motion in  parliament over Arafat's speech.
Earlier, Rabin demanded a written pledge from Arafat that he would respect  the PLO-Israeli autonomy agreements. The Palestinians fired back, saying  Arafat had been misinterpreted and had nothing to explain.
The PLO leader said on the tape that "an agreement can be made with the  enemy and then broken as soon as possible."
The remarks triggered a "serious crisis of confidence," said Environment  Minister Yossi Sarid, warning that Israel "will not continue the autonomy  negotiations unless Arafat retracts his comments."
Arafat spoke in English, but used the Arabic name for Mohammad's pact,  "solh al-hodaibiya," or a tactical ceasefire.
His political adviser, Ahmad Tibi, argued that the row was caused by a  misunderstanding of Islam. The Palestinians were committed to the self-rule  agreement, he said.
The hodaibiya pact was signed by the Koraish tribe which controlled Mecca  in 628 and the prophet, but scrapped after the tribe violated the agreement,  according to Moslem scholars. Mohammad took over Mecca two years later.
Last week, Arafat had to hastily explain that despite the connotations of  "jihad," he had not meant a holy war. Rabin said he was unconvinced.
