Twelve people were massacred by gunmen in  Tokoza black township east of here late Friday, in the most violent incident  since South Africa's first non-racial election last month.
The gunmen, armed with AK-47 assault rifles, stormed a house and opened  fire on the occupants, killing 12, police spokeswoman Janine Smith told the  domestic news agency SAPA. The victims were aged between 13 and 25.
Smith said it appeared the youths had been staying in the house for about  a month, but police did not know if they had been affiliated to any political  group.
Last year at least 1,600 people were killed in the townships east of here,  which have borne the brunt of political violence.
The death toll has steadily declined since the beginning of the year and  police told of experiencing their quietest time in years over the April 26-29  election which was won by President Nelson Mandela's African National Congress  (ANC).
Mandela was inaugurated as the country's first democratically-elected  president on Tuesday, ending more than 300 years of white-minority rule.
In his first statement, new Safety and Security Minister Sydney Mufamadi  Saturday condemned the Tokoza killings, saying they were contrary to the  spirit of reconciliation.
"These barbaric killings are made all the more shocking due to the spirit  of reconciliation and peace which emerged after the elections," Mufamadi said  in a statement.
"They serve as a grim reminder that violence and its contributing factors  will have to be combated with all the resources at the disposal of the  government of national unity," he said, vowing that eradicating violence would  be a top priority of the police force.
In a pre-dawn swoop Saturday, police and soldiers raided three migrant  worker hostels in Vosloorus, near Tokoza, and seized a cache of arms,  including 13 AK-47s, three handgrenades and more than 1,000 rounds of  ammunition, the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) said in a  statement.
"Several" people were arrested on a range of charges, the SANDF said.
Most of the township violence has pitted hostel dwellers, mainly supporters  of the Zulu-nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), against ANC-supporting  township residents.
Mangosuthu Buthelezi's IFP came third in the election, after the former  ruling National Party (NP); members of the ANC, NP and IFP make up the  government of national unity that was announced on Wednesday.
The ANC and the IFP have been waging a virtual civil war for political  dominance in Johannesburg's eastern township and KwaZulu-Natal province that  has claimed 7,000 lives since 1990.
In a move to broker peace between the warring parties, Mandela this week  gave the powerful home affairs ministry to Buthelezi. The IFP was also granted  two other places in the 27-member cabinet.
