Formula one team chiefs appeared to have  won concessions from motor racing authorities over scheduled safety changes  after threatening to boycott this weekend's Spanish Grand Prix.
The rebels agreed to start practice here Friday for the Spanish Grand Prix  after a two-hour meeting with motor racing chief Max Mosley.
The teams agreed to use cars fitted with the new safety designs but  Formula One Constructors' Association president Bernie Ecclestone led  reporters to believe they had won concessions for the rest of the season when  more stringent changes were scheduled.
Frank Williams and McLaren managing director Ron Dennis had backed  Benetton chief Flavio Briatore when race organisers had ordered him to take  responsibility for his cars' safety if he wanted to race.
The top teams - except Ferrari - supported Briatore when he refused to  give in but after meeting Mosley he said he would give organisers the  assurance they demanded and his cars would race.
Benetton's championship leader Michael Schumacher has won the opening four  races of the season.
The new measures, designed to cut engine power and reduce aerodynamic  efficiency, had been rushed in following the deaths of Brazilian Ayrton Senna  and Austrian Roland Ratzenberger at Imola and the Monaco crash which ended  with Karl Wendlinger in a coma.
However, the team chiefs claimed the changes made the cars even more  dangerous because they had not had time to test them properly.
"We listened to everyone's point of view," Mosley said after a frank  exchange with Benetton, Williams, McLaren, Lotus, Ligier and Footwork chiefs.
Lotus' Peter Collins said: "The teams want more car safety but we need  time to test the changes.
"Decisions on technical changes should be taken by the engineers, not the  politicians.
"Can you imagine a politician demanding that a Boeing 747's wing should be  shortened by a metre? We've had enough of rules imposed by dictatorship.
"If we run our cars, it will simply be to see how solid the rear wing is.
"We have warned other teams about this problem by giving them details of  the accident that our driver Pedro Lamy was involved in at Silverstone on  Tuesday."
Lamy lost control of his car and crashed while testing a car set to the  new regulations and smashed both his kneecaps.
