Estonia is "sad" at Russian foot-dragging in  pulling out troops from the newly independent Baltic nation after Russia  accused the country of passing laws discriminating against ethnic Russians.
"We are sad" about the Russian accusations, Foreign Minister Juri Luik  told a press conference winding up a two-day conference of Baltic countries.
The deep-seated dispute over the withdrawal of Russian troops dominated  the conference of foreign ministers from the 10 members of the Baltic Council,  which ended here Wednesday.
The Russian delegation at the council's third annual conference issued a  memorandum criticising Estonia for "discriminating against the  Russian-speaking population."
Russian speakers make up one third of Estonia's 1.6 million inhabitants.
Unlike neighbouring Latvia and Lithuania, two other Baltic nations that  were annexed by the Soviet union in 1940, Estonia has yet to reach an accord  on the withdrawal of some 2,500 Russian soldiers stationed on its territory.
Moscow is demanding "social guarantees" for 10,640 of its retired officers  living in Estonia. Tallinn would like to see the former "occupiers" return  home to Russia.
Russia's ambassador to Estonia recently presented statistics showing  around half of the officers are over 60 years old, with just 15 percent under  50. Some have served for military intelligence organisations including the KGB.
Both countries' foreign ministers, Juri Luik of Estonia and Russia's  Andrei Kozyrev, have also clashed on the issue of borders.
Estonia wants negotiations on the return from Russia of the border region  around Pechori and Ivangorod allocated to it under the provisions of a 1921  treaty after Estonia became independent.
Luik said he hoped the issue would be addressed at Thursday's inaugural  conference in Paris on creating a "pact for stability in Europe," a meeting  called by French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur.
Kozyrev said there was "no border issue within the Conference on Security  and Cooperation in Europe. If there was one, we'd be opening up Pandora's box.  There is no question of discussing borders, neither with Ukraine nor with  Estonia, neither here in Tallinn nor in Paris."
Conferees meanwhile appointed on Russia's initiative former Danish justice  minister Ole Espersen as regional human rights commissioner to monitor the  rights of ethnic minorities. But there were conflicting views on his remit,  with Kozyrev saying he was to monitor the position of Russian minorities  outside Russia, whereas Luik declared the job covered a region "from Siberia  to Norway."
The idea to create the post, officially entitled "Commissioner of  Democratic Institutions and Human Rights," was backed by all the 10 Baltic  states at the forum, namely: Estonia, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Latvia,  Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Russia and Sweden.
The conference also addressed other regional issues, including nuclear  security and an exchange of teachers in the Russian enclave of Kaliningrad.
Except for the Russo-Estonian disagreements, the meeting had, according to  one Latvian official, raised "no controversy" and had been "rather boring."      Next year's conference was scheduled to take place in Warsaw.
