Defence ministers of the North Atlantic Treaty  Organisation reacted cautiously here Tuesday to Russia's demands for formal  links with NATO, offering instead a limited range of dialogue.
They agreed that Russian involvement in European military affairs should  depend on Moscow's participation in the Partnership for Peace programme of  military cooperation between NATO and countries of the former Soviet bloc.
The ministers would not endorse Russia's request for a formal treaty-type  arrangement with NATO outside the partnership.
But they identified controls on the spread of nuclear weapons as a field  where the two sides could develop special links.
NATO deputy secretary-general Sergio Balanzino said after a day-long  meeting of the ministers: "We are ready to open dialogue with Russia to  discuss constructive cooperation in areas of common interest."
He was speaking ahead of a meeting between the defence ministers and their  Russian counterpart, General Pavel Grachev.
Grachev told journalists on his arrival that Russia would join the  partnership only if at the same time it was also given a separate accord on  closer Russia-NATO relations to reflect Moscow's super-power status.
He was in Brussels to brief the ministers on Russia's long-awaited  post-Cold War military doctrine, particularly as it applies to Moscow's  military involvement in neighbouring countries of the former Soviet Union.
But equal interest was focused on the stand-off between NATO, which wants  Russia to join the military partnership, and Moscow's insistence that it will  do so only if it gets a special political accord with the alliance.
US Secretary of State William Perry said NATO wanted and expected Russia  to make a contribution to the partnership programme -- particularly to joint  peacekeeping exercises -- in relation to the massive size of its military.
He said areas not covered in the partnership, such as nuclear issues,  could be pursued bilaterally between Brussels and Moscow, but added that no  decision had been taken to sign any special deal with Moscow.
British Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind said NATO would have to consider  Russia's request for formal links outside the partnership "very carefully  indeed" before deciding to accept it.
And German Defence Minister Volker Ruehe said any direct links between  NATO and Russia would never result in the division of Europe into NATO and  Russian zones of influence as feared in some eastern European capitals.
Responding to eastern European fears of Russian domination in Europe, he  said Moscow would never be able to veto any NATO decision to bring countries  such as Poland and Hungary into the alliance as full members.
However, the German minister said there was consensus among the defence  ministers that NATO needed to meet the Russians halfway.
Several PFP members, particularly Poland and Hungary, have made it clear  they see the partnership as a halfway house to full NATO membership, a  position which has been received with hostility in Moscow.
Ruehe said: "If other countries have the possibility to join NATO as real  members and Russia cannot, we must give the Russians something else."
