The Chinese government has released five more  religious dissidents in its latest gesture of human rights concessions to the  US in the run-up to a renewal of its most favoured nation (MFN) trade status.
Three members of the Protestant Church of the New Testament, Chen Zhuman,  Yan Peizhi and Xu Zhihe, along with Roman Catholic priests Zhang Li and Chu  Tai, were recently released early from reeducation camps for good behaviour,  the official Xinhua news agency said Friday.
The five had been given sentences of between one and three years in labour  camps from 1992-93 for having "disturbed public order and endangered public  security by their religious activities."
Chen Zhuman, 50, was sentenced in Fujian, in July 1992, to three years in  a reeducation camp for having illegally rejoined a group of the Church of the  New Testament.
Yan Peizhei, 35, and Xu Zhihe, 50, both peasants from Shandong, also  belonged to the Protestant organization when they were sentenced to three  years in labour camp in December 1992.
Zhang Li and Chu Tai, both Catholic priests from Zhangjiakou in Hebei  province, were sentenced to three years and one year, respectively, in  November 1993.
When the communist government came to power in 1949 after a civil war, it  created several officially sanctioned churches and suppressed the activities  of Christians who refused to join -- especially Catholics who remained loyal  to the Vatican.
On Thursday, Chinese authorities announced the release on parole of  another Christian dissident, Zhang Ruiyu, who had been sentenced to four years  in prison in 1991.
"The Chinese authorities are trying to charm (US President Bill) Clinton  by adeptly playing on religion and swaying American public opinion," a western  diplomat here said.
Clinton must decide by June 3 whether or not to renew China's privileged  MFN trading status which allows Chinese products easier access to US markets.  Washington however has made the improvement of the human rights situation in  China a precondition to MFN renewal.
International human rights organizations have rallied for the release of  the six religious dissidents on several occasions.
Observers here said it was less dangerous for Beijing to release the  religious dissidents than more militant political dissidents who could stir up  more trouble ahead of the fifth anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre  on June 4.
Authorities over the past few weeks have rounded up at least six active  political dissidents here and in the eastern city of Shanghai.
The latest arrest was that of Shanghai-based dissident Yang Zhou on  Thursday. Zhou is a spokesman for the Chinese Association for Human Rights.
China's most famous dissident, Wei Jingsheng, is meanwhile kept under  police guard at a state residence in a Beijing suburb.
President Jiang Zemin, who is also head of the Chinese Communist Party, on  Thursday for the first time publicly defended the bloody suppression of the  1989 pro-democracy movement at Tiananmen Square, saying authorities were  determined to use all methods available to avoid another such incident.
Chinese leaders are also employing another tactic to convince the United  States to renew MFN -- allowing a few dissidents to leave the country.
In April, 1989 pro-democracy movement leader Wang Juntao was given  permission to leave in order to seek medical treatment in the United States.
Wang had been sentenced to 13 years imprisonment, receiving the harshest  penalty given to any leader connected to the movement.
Dissident intellectual Yu Haocheng early this week received the green  light from authorities to visit the United States to teach at New York's  Columbia University, after several years of trying to secure permission.
But most observers here believe the release of dissidents is aimed solely  at guaranteeing the continuation of MFN.
