Third-seed Stefan Edberg wanted to shake the red  clay off his tennis shoes and leave the French capital as soon as possible  Tuesday night after his shock first-round defeat against fellow-Swede Henrik  Holm at the French Open.
Edberg, who admitted that his chances of winning the one major title that  has eluded him were now seriously reduced, said he wanted to find a grass  court as soon as possible.
"If there's a grass tournament next week then I'd be happy to play," said  the disappointed former world number-one.
"There is Queens coming up and then Wimbledon. The more I play on grass  the better.
"I need to get away and forget about today."
Edberg, 28 and a losing finalist to Michael Chang in 1989, has never been  able to succeed with his pure 'serve-and-volley' tennis at Roland Garros.
"Obviously my chances of winning here aren't looking too good. But I'll  probably give it another shot next year. Age is not going with me."
"I had felt confident going into the match. I've had some good results and  I've been playing well the past few days. And I had a pretty good record  against other Swedish players. I hadn't lost to one of the Swedish guys for  several years.
"Today I didn't play well but I just kept on hanging in there. You always  feel you have a chance if you can get in to a fifth set. But I dropped my  service in the first game and I didn't take of my chances when they came."
Edberg remained convinced that an attacking player could still win the  title, despite the fact that the surface was more suited to the baseliners.
"It's never going to be easy for an attacking player, but I still think  they can win here."
Holm, over the moon after his victory, admitted: "I played good today and  it's a great feeling to have beaten Stefan. He always plays well against other  Swedish guys. I don't think he's lost to any of us since Monte Carlo three  years ago.
He admitted that some of the calls had frustrated him and said that one of  them had been so clearly wrong he had wanted to ask a photographer to take a  photo of the mark.
Holm said there was nothing to be read into the fact that he walked off  court without waiting for his opponent.
"I always do that. Win or lose, I never wait for an opponent. I just go  ... unless it's at Wimbledon with the Queen watching.
kd94am
