British Prime Minister John Major called Tuesday  for a new "multi-speed, multi-layered" approach to Europe, saying he did not  believe European Union members had to be unanimous on every issue.
His remarks, which come in the run-up to June 9 election to the European  parliament, immediately provoked angry protest from opposition MPs, who said  he was relegating Britain to the second-rank in Europe.
"I have never believed that Europe must invariably act as one on every  issue. Trying to make every country conform to every plan is a socialist way  of thinking. It's not for us," Major told a European election rally at  Ellesmere Port in northern England.
"I do not happen to think that it threatens Europe if member states are  free to do some things in their own way and at their own speed. It is simply  good old-fashioned common sense."
He aded: "Varying when it needs to -- multi-track, multi-speed,  multi-layered. It is a Conservative idea. In line with the mood of people  everywhere.
"We should be examining how this can work, not just fighting over the old  centralised prescription."
Major also justified once again his government's decision to sign out of  the social chapter of the 1992 Maastricht treaty, which provided the framework  for the single European market that came into force in January 1993.
"If other countries want to slap more costs on their businesses then they  are welcome to -- if they want the social chapter they can have it. But we are  not having it here."
But he said member states could not shirk binding commitments. "Such  commitments hold no fears for Britain. We have entered into them with our eyes  open. We will honour all the agreements we have made."
But Labour foreign secretary Jack Cunningham responded: "The prime  minister has let the cat out of the bag. He has admitted that his government  would let Britain fall behind in Europe."
Cunningham charged that Major had abandoned any pretense that under the  Tories Britain would be a first-rate nation in Europe. "He is apparently  willing to offer voluntary relegation to the second division in Europe. And he  isn't even prepared to put up a fight."
Earlier this week, France's minister for Europe Alain Lamassoure criticized  governments seeking to slow the pace of European integration and called for  more centralised decision-making.
