Ten days after general elections here, the  Dominican Republic finds itself in a political dead end with no winner and no  sign of a way out of the electoral impasse.
No sooner had the polls closed May 15 than the crisis erupted with  opposition  presidential candidate, Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, accusing  backers of President Joaquin Balaguer of stealing the elections.
Thusday, the Dominican Republic's six million people still had no clue who  will govern them after August 16, when Balaguer's term formally ends.
Balaguer was leading by less than one percent of the vote in the final  returns announced Wednesday by the Central Election Board, which stands  accused of carrying out the fraud by tampering with computerized voter lists.
A recount has been ordered, but the opposition says it will settle nothing  without first addressing whether the voting lists were changed to exclude as  many as 200,000 opposition supporters.
There has been no violence, but a climate of tension and uncertainty has  settled over this hot and usually festive seaside city in the Caribbean.
Even with the approach of Mother's Day, which is celebrated here Sunday,  storekeepers say customers have been staying away, causing a drop-off in sales.
Meanwhile, businessmen in the all-important tourism industry say many  tours from Europe have been cancelled in reaction to news accounts of the  crisis.
The country is the destination of 1.4 million tourists a year, who pour an  estimated 1.3 billion dollars a year into the local economy, or about 70  percent of the value of its total exports.
Hotel owners in Santo Domingo and Puerto Plata, the principal tourist  destination, warned this week of the threat to the industry.
"Tourism is a very volatile industry, which reacts nervously to current  events," said one hotel manager.
The country boasts 26,000 hotel rooms in a string of modern hotels built  along its coasts.
Meanwhile, as the political crisis deepens, the Dominican Republic has  become the focus of a separate crisis over Haiti, which shares the island of  Hispaniola with it.
The government has come under increasing US pressure to stop the open  smuggling of goods from the Dominican Republic to Haiti, which is under a UN  embargo because its military leaders are defying demands that they step down.
Special US envoy William Gray met for more than two hours Wednesday night  with Balaguer to discuss ways to tighten enforcement of the embargo along the  border.
Gray said after the meeting that Balaguer, who is on record as accepting   the UN embargo despite his opposition to it, had pledged to completely close  the border. Balaguer issued no statement on the talks.
