Yemen's Foreign Minister Mohammad Bassandawa Sunday  rejected UN efforts to secure a ceasefire in his country's civil war, denying  an Egyptian report that Sanaa had changed its mind.
Yemen "rejects any UN Security Council interference in its internal  affairs," the foreign minister, a northerner, told reporters here after a  meeting with Arab League chief Esmat Abdel Meguid.
His Egyptian counterpart Amr Mussa said earlier that Bassandawa had agreed  to a UN debate on the north-south civil war, following talks with President  Hosni Mubarak.
"Sanaa has agreed that the question of a ceasefire be examined by the UN  Security Council," in contrast to its previous stand that the international  community should stay out of the conflict, Mussa said.
Bassandawa himself said earlier that the council "must insist on  preserving Yemen's unity" and reiterated the north's conditions for a  ceasefire with the breakaway south.
"We want an end to the fighting as well as a Security Council decision in  this direction," the foreign minister said. "Then a dialogue could be launched  between the two parties."
He added the south must go back on its May 21 declaration of an  independent state, "because this decision is illegal" under the constitution  of Yemen, which was unified in May 1990.
"Unity happened voluntarily in 1990 and it is still the basis of any  solution," he said.
Bassandawa said the north was in contact with southern officials who  reject separation, in contrast to their leader Ali Salem al-Baid, whom Sanaa  wants to put on trial for war crimes.
Saudi Arabia and Oman, backed by other Gulf states and Egypt, have urged  the Security Council to call for a ceasefire to the war raging in Yemen since  May 5 and to impose an arms embargo on both sides.
The south has welcomed the plan, while insisting that northern troops  withdraw to the old border between conservative, tribal North Yemen and former  Marxist South.
But in Sanaa, Deputy Prime Minister Abdelwahab al-Ansi told European Union  ambassadors on Sunday that UN interference would be in violation of the  organisation's charter.
UN action "exposes countries which have far more serious problems than  Yemen to interference in their internal affairs," he said.
The Yemeni parliament also rejected outside interference in the civil war,  saying such action would only serve to encourage secessionists, the official  news agency Saba reported.
Interference by any state, regional or international organisation would  also violate the Yemeni constitution, MPs said.
