Russian special envoy Vitaly Churkin arrived in  the Serbian capital overnight to discuss a joint western-Russian peace plan,  the agency Tanjug reported as Serb leaders gave the proposal a cool reception.
Churkin was due to meet Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic on Monday to  discuss the peace plan, endorsed by US, Russian and five west European foreign  ministers in Geneva late Friday.
But the leader of the self-proclaimed Bosnian Serb "parliament," Momcilo  Krajisnik, said they would insist on an end to all UN-imposed sanctions  against rump Yugoslavia -- made up of Serbia and Montenegro -- before talks  could begin.
"The (preparatory) contact group did not do what it should have done, and  establish that we do not want to negotiate as long as the sanctions are not  lifted," Krajisnik told the local Radio Jagodina Sunday.
He said it was "encouraging" that the Geneva plan "definitively accepted  the existence of two (separate) states in Bosnia" but complained that the  proposed territorial division did not take account of "quality" as well as  "quantity."
"One percent of Sarajevo is worth five percent of any other part of  Bosnian territory," he said.
The Geneva plan, a bid to put the peace process in Bosnia-Hercegovina back  on track, called for a four-month ceasefire and resumption of peace  negotiations within two weeks.
It held out the prospect of a "phased suspension" of sanctions in return  for "good faith" implementation of a peace settlement but firmly ruled out any  attempt to make sanctions relief a precondition for the resumption of talks.
The joint statement also backed a European plan for the ethnic division of  the former Yugoslav republic, providing 51 percent of the territory for a  Bosnian Croat-Moslem federation and 49 percent for the Bosnian Serbs.
Bosnian Moslem leaders criticised this as amounting to an endorsement of  ethnic cleansing.
The Belgrade-backed Serb forces currently hold some 70 percent as a result  their gains in more than two years of war and ethnic cleansing following the  republic's independence.
