The 47th Cannes International Film Festival  opened Thursday with jury president Clint Eastwood stealing the show even  before the world's biggest filmfest got under way.
As the the world's cinema industry settled into its seats for the 12-day   cinematic banquet, Eastwood dominated proceedings with his humour and  incidentally with his love of music.
At the official inauguration ceremony at the Grand Theatre Lumiere in the  Festival Palace here, French actress Juliette Binoche declared the festival  open in a multi-lingual address reflecting the festival's global stature.
Starting in Chinese and finishing in French, Binoche welcomed the movie  industry to the French riviera. "I declare the 47th International Film  Festival open," she said, to loud applause.
But even before the ceremony Eastwood made Cannes' day by pledging that  the next 12 days should be for the average film-goer rather than art  specialists or critics.
"I haven't really done any studying for it because ... we're going to be  viewing strictly from an amateur point of view," said the actor-turned  director, presenting his jury to the press.
"Some of us may have have acted as critics at one point or another, but  for the most part its just as film-goers," he said.
And, breaking the ice at a press conference, he praised his  vice-president, French actress Catherine Deneuve.
"She's much prettier than Al Gore," he said.
Then at the inaugural ceremony, hosted by Binoche's compatriot, French  actress Jeanne Moreau, Eastwood again stole the show when a "surprise"  saxophone fanfare, including a serenade by saxophonist Archie Shepp, greeted  his arrival on stage.
Eastwood, director of the 1988 hommage to Charlie Parker "Bird" and known  for his love of jazz, looked suitably grateful, before helping Moreau welcome  his eight jury members onto the stage.
The inaugural ceremony, broadcast live on French television, was followed  by the premiere of the festival's opening film, "The Hudsucker Proxy" by US  filmmaking brothers Joel and Ethan Coen.
The brothers scored a hit in 1991 by taking the Palme d'Or in their first  appearance here with "Barton Fink."
But they played down the prospect of a repeat performance, saying they were  simply happy to have been invited back, with their latest offering, a romantic  comedy set on Wall Street starring Tim Robbins and Paul Newman.
In all 23 films in the festival's main competition are hoping to succeed  Jane Campion's "The Piano" and Chen Kaige's "Farewell My Concubine" as winners  of the Palme d'Or on May 23.
As well as the main competition, films are also being shown out of  competition in categories called Un Certain Regard (A Certain Regard), the  Director's Fortnight and the Camera D'Or, for first-time filmmakers.
A retrospective of French film icon Jean Renoir has also been organized to  mark the 100th anniversary of his birth, and a selection of the films of  Federico Fellini is also on offer.
On Friday the competition proper gets under way with the French favourite  "La Reine Margot" (Queen Margot) by Patrice Chereau, starring Isabelle Adjani,  and "Du Li Sha Dai" (Confuscius' Confusion) by Taiwan's Edward Yang.
