Referees will be on trial almost as much as the  players at next month's World Cup.
The men in black will be under extreme pressure because of a controversial  new rule that any player who tackles from behind must be sent off.
"I will personally say to all our World Cup referees that anyone who  tackles from behind will be shown the red card," says FIFA secretary general  Sept Blatter.
"There can be no doubt a player who attacks another from behind is  committing a very grave premeditated foul. That is direct violence which can  only be punished by sending him off."
Traditionally, a red card for a professional foul is given only when a  scoring opportunity has been denied. But now marching orders will be issued  for a tackle from behind wherever it occurs on the pitch.
Blatter explains: "A tackle from behind is as serious on the halfway line  as it is in the penalty area."
Any referee who hesitates will be dealt with severely.
"I will ask all our referees: 'Are you content to carry out this  instruction?' If he is doubtful, then I strike his name off our lists," he  says.
Blatter reckons refereeing standards have slumped at recent world cups.
He cites the case of a serious foul in the last World Cup when all the  referee did was to ask the players to shake hands.
"It was a very poor example to the rest of the game," adds Blatter.  "Violence cannot be excused under any circumstances."
But German coach Berti Vogts believes the new regulations could be  difficult to enforce.
"When is a tackle from behind not a tackle from behind," said Vogts.
"Someone may try to tackle from the side, be beaten for speed and then  accidentally and harmlessly foul a player. Of course a clumsy tackle deserves  a free-kick or even a caution. But a sending off would be unfair in this case  and could spoil matches."
Clamping down on play-acting is a new regulation which will undoubtedly  have more universal appeal.
The new rule stipulates simply that anyone feigning injury will receive a  yellow card.
