Israel prefers to shrug off the remarks of PLO  leader Yasser Arafat about a "jihad" for Jerusalem and will judge the  Palestinians on their "actions" rather than their words, Prime Minister  Yitzhak Rabin's spokesman said Thursday.
"For us, what is important are the actions on the ground and not wild  statements," spokesman Oded Ben Ami told AFP.
Rabin initially reacted angrily to remarks made by Arafat in South Africa  urging a "jihad" or holy war to recover Jerusalem and implying in veiled terms  that Palestinians were not necessarily bound by their agreement with Israel.
Rabin first talked of sending troops to reconquer the autonomous areas but  he "soon realised that he risked jeopardising the entire peace process and  changed his tune," an Israeli minister who asked to stay anonymous told AFP  Thursday.
The minister said Police Minister Moshe Shahal and met two prominent  Palestinian leaders from Jerusalem on Sunday to convey a warning to the  Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO) leader.
Shahal told them to tell Arafat that his remarks could force Israel to  reject further concessions to the Palestinians, because of the effect of his  statements on Israeli public opinion.
"The two Palestinian leaders admitted that their leader had no idea of the  role of Israeli public opinion and promised to get the message to him," the  unnamed minister said.
Rabin had decided to laugh off the dispute with Arafat with whom he signed  the autonomy accords on May 4 in Cairo.
On Wednesday he dismissed the PLO leader as "garrulous" and his statements  as "empty words".
"Maybe he's a master in the art of survival but he's always building  castles in the air... He has no experience of running a society or of budget  problems," Rabin said.
At the same time, Israel has praised the care with which Palestinian  policemen were doing their job.  "On the ground, implementation of the accord  is going ahead better than I ever expected," Rabin said.
"Even though Palestinian policemen lack wages, food and logistics, their  attitude has been positive," Rabin said.
The prime minister's "compliment" was welcomed by the Palestinian police  chief.
"We are very pleased to hear that. Our task is not helped by the fact that  we have no communication equipment to issue orders to our men on the ground.   We have neither radio nor field telephones.
"We have nothing. Each person has to act as he thinks fit and for the  moment things are going rather well," said a senior member of the PLO security  force in Gaza.
Up to now, in all the incidents which have occurred in the autonomous  areas Rabin has blamed Jewish settlers.
He has described their attitude as "provocative" and branded as a  "criminal" one settler who refused to stop at a Palestinian police checkpoint.
In the view of Zyad Abu Zyad, one of the Palestinian autonomy negotiators,  said Israel was creating obstacles for the Palestinians "without realising the  difficulties we are facing".
"It has not released the prisoners, will not share frontier posts with the  Palestinian police and will not hand over the funds of the military  administration to the Palestinians," he said.
He said the Palestinians should appoint members of their autonomous  administration "as soon as possible" to counter Israeli accusations that the  PLO did not know how to run a country. So far 19 of the 24 members have been  named.
