The independent Fed said when it started raising short-term rates in  February that it wanted to forestall any inflationary push as the economy  recovered.
The government, however, stressed repeatedly that there was no sign of  inflation in the economy.
Chief White House economist Laura Tyson said that last week's better than  expected inflation figures for April, with wholesale prices down 0.3 percent  and consumer prices up just 0.1 percent showed that "inflation remains  well-contained."
But she did acknowledge for the first time that the US economy was  approaching full production capacity and that continued growth would mean an  "uptick in inflation," especially when the effect of higher oil prices begins  to make itself felt.
The Fed's pre-emptive move in February provoked a strong market reaction,  despite the fact that Fed chairman Alan Greenspan had warned a few days  earlier that a tightening of credit was inevitable.
The interest rate on 30-year Treasury bonds, the market bellwether, stood  at 6.35 percent before the first short-term rate rise on February 4, but by  Monday last week it was at 7.64 percent, its highest level since November  1992. It had slipped back a little by Friday, but was still at 7.49 percent.
Wall Street was on a record-breaking run pre-February, but hit its last  record on January 31 when the Dow Jones index ended the day at 3,978 points.  On Friday it closed out the week at 3,659.
The dollar has also fallen sharply since February against the mark and the  yen, and it took massive concerted central bank intervention May 4 to stem the  slide.
"Nobody expected the market to react so negatively" to the Fed's move,  because "people got used to an easy life," said Iggo of Chase Manhattan.
Apart from anything else, at four percent or even 4.25 percent the  interbank rate would still be low, and the Fed is likely to take them up  further this year and into 1995, experts say.
The markets generally agree, but the problem for the Fed is to fine-tune  its policy to act ahead to prevent inflation without raising market fears that  it is about to become a problem.
