The Bank of Greece increased its overdraft rate for  banks by three points to 33 percent on Monday, the bank said in a statement  against a background of pressure against the currency.
The bank said that it would charge an additional 0.4 points per day and  that it was increasing its re-discount rate from 21.5 percent to 22.5 percent  and its Lombard rate for some operations from 25.5 percent to 26.5 percent.
The reference rate on the interbank market had risen to 75 percent early  on Monday. Market sources said that this had been engineered by the big  nationalised banks which had acted on discreet instructions from the central  bank.
On Friday the interbank rate had been 23 percent. The governor of the  central bank, Ionnis Boutos, has said that he was determined to use interest  rates to defend the currency.
Speculation against the drachma emerged suddenly last week. On Saturday  the socialist government surprised markets by deciding to bring forward by six  weeks to Monday the total liberation of capital flows.
The head of the foreign exchange department at Citibank in Greece said  that the money market was extremely nervous and that the authorities were  trying to discourage a battle over the currency.
When trading began on Monday the drachma was steady at 147.80 to the mark  compared with 147.70 at the close on Friday.
The government said during the weekend that it would not devalue the  drachma which is the only currency within the European union which has never  joined the European monetary system (EMS). Greek and foreign banks have argued  that the currency is over valued by 10 percent to 30 percent.
One European expert said: "But it can count only on interest rates and the  sanction of market will not wait." He held that the currency would probably be  devalued in the short term, but the Citibank expert held that it would not be  devalued before the elections to the European parliament in June.
Dealers here said that last week the central bank had had to spend about  one billion dollars to support the drachma but that its reserves amounted to  only nine billion dollars.
This explained why the government had acted urgently in an attenpt to  impress the markets by advancing the liberalisation of capital flows.
