Former world champion John McEnroe gave the  'thumbs-down' to Andre Agassi's bid to win the French Open here on Wednesday.
McEnroe, losing finalist to Ivan Lendl in the 1984 final, said: "I didn't  think Andre looked too good in his first match. He doesn't seem so confident  on clay as he was a few years ago."
Agassi, who beat former champion Mats Wilander 6-2, 7-5, 6-1 on Monday,  was a finalist here in 1991 and 1992 but missed last year's tournament because  of injury.
"Fitness is a major factor with Agassi, and I don't think he's in peak  shape right now," said McEnroe. "I would be very surprised if he reached the  quarter-finals."
Agassi is scheduled to play powerful Austrian baseliner Thomas Muster on  Roland Garros' newly-constructed 'A' show-court today for a place in the third  round -- providing a steady early morning drizzle, which delayed the start of  play, stopped.
The American's coach Brad Gilbert, who is also playing in the tournament,  shrugged off McEnroe's remarks.
"All right, he didn't look too good against Wilander but it was the sort  of match Andre hates," said Gilbert.
"There was no real opposition and that's what he's going to get against  Muster."
"Andre is fully capable ro raising the level of his game and should do  better against someone like Muster. The further Andre goes the better he  gets."    Agassi, who has had an up-and-down time of it since returning after  a three-month injury lay-off, lost in the first round at the Monte Carlo Open  and Italian Open.
McEnroe backed top-seed and world number-one Pete Sampras to win this  year's title.
"He has a real chance to win it," said the American. "And if he does he  would definitely have earned it. But there will be no easy matches for him  after the round of sixteen.
Sampras, who is chasing a Grand Slam of four consecutive major titles, is  scheduled to be in action on the centre-court today against the world junior  champion Marcelo Rios of Chile.
Other top matches include a second-round clash between defending women's  champion Steffi Graf and Stephanie Rottier of the Netherlands, and  twice-champion Jim Courier against Stefano Pescosolido of Italy.
