Rival Yemeni army units clashed on all fronts  Saturday as President Ali Abdallah Saleh called off a ceasefire and vowed to   seize the key city of Aden to thwart the south's declaration of independence.
Both sides accused each other of initiating the latest fighting, after  Sanaa had said a ceasefire would come into effect at midnight Friday for a  three-day period to cover the Moslem feast of Al-Adha.
The president's troops mounted "relentless attacks," forcing the south to  retaliate, Aden Radio said in this southern port city, home of Vice President  Ali Salem al-Baid, Saleh's bitter rival, and capital of the breakaway state.
It said the civil war, which erupted May 5, was raging on all fronts on  Saturday, eve of the fourth anniversary of the country's unification between  the conservative and tribal North and former Marxist South.
Heavy artillery bombardment was clearly heard from Aden. Correspondents  said northern troops turned up the heat and pushed back their opponents to  within 40 kilometres (25 miles) of the city.
An angry Saleh said that the ceasefire was off and vowed to capture Aden  after Baid declared an independent Yemeni Democratic Republic in the south.
The president said the declaration was "unlawful" and charged that  southern forces had ignored the three-day truce.
"We already said we were adhering to the ceasefire but the separatist  forces initiated fighting on all war fronts this morning, so fighting is going  on," he said. "There is no ceasefire."
Saleh warned that his forces were "putting a military ring around Aden"  and added: "Our intention was not to enter the city. However, after the  announcement of separation ... we are obliged to enter the city at all costs.
"Then the armed forces will continue to pursue the separatists in  Mukallah," a port east of Aden where Baid took refuge earlier this week, said  the president.
The northerners had said they would only blockade the city and not enter  it, promising not to harm the civilian population of more than 500,000.
In Aden, where the declaration of a new south Yemen was greeted with  celebrations in the streets, several residents said Saturday they were  delighted to be rid of the north.
"We want both mosques and bars, but not the bearded" Moslem  fundamentalists of the north who back the president, said trader Hussein Afif.
"Thanks to separation, our country will once again have the prosperity  that was deprived it under unification."
As most residents stayed at home to celebrate Al-Adha feast marking  Abraham's willingness to sacrifice his son, some southerners were wary about  what lay in store.
"We're scared of what's going to happen," admitted Samir Abbad, a  42-year-old schoolteacher and father of two children.
Baid said on television that the decision to break away was the result of  Saleh's campaign to "destroy the south" and that the union had never become  reality, apart from the joint flag and national anthem.
But Saleh warned that Baid could not win.
"Baid will eventually have to run away to Oman or Saudi Arabia. He will  eventually have to join his separatist colleagues living abroad. In fact, he  has already sent away his family," he said.
"Any Arab country or friendly state which may try to sympathise with this  position puts itself in the rank of the enemies of the Yemeni people," he said.
Baid had announced the formation of a 111-member council of national  salvation comprising elected southern deputies, representatives of political  parties and religious figures.
It would choose a presidential council and an interim government, and  multi-party elections would be held within a year.
Baid, whom Saleh sacked as his deputy after the outbreak of war, gave  assurances the new state would respect "political and public freedoms, human  rights and freedom of expression and of the press."
On the international front, there was little immediate reaction to the  independence bid, although some Arab countries have criticized Saleh's refusal  to enter dialogue with the south unless Baid surrendered for a war crimes  trial.
Libya's leader Moamer Kadhafi, "in protest and mourning" at the south's  decision, decided not to take part in festivities for Al-Adha, the Libyan news  agency JANA reported.
