Palestinians took over control  of their own affairs in the Gaza Strip on Tuesday after 27 years of Israeli  occupation.
In a brief ceremony at the Erez entry point into the Strip, about 30  Israeli departmental heads symbolically passed on authority to their  counterparts in the new Palestinian authority in accord with the PLO autonomy  deal.
With the handover, Palestinians will have taken control of their own  affairs in both Gaza and the West Bank town of Jericho in all fields except  foreign relations and external security.
Israeli military administration, which has controlled everything from  Palestinian schools to donkey-drawn cart licenses, has ended in the two  autonomous regions, said Israeli General Duby Gazit.
"Today, we can say we have virtually finished our mission," said Gazit,  head of the Gaza Strip military administration.
The two sides signed a series of documents and an inventory of equipment  transferred to the Palestinians. However, the Palestinians denied some of the  equipment had been handed over and the dispute will be passed on to a liaison  committee.
Gazit signed the final protocol with Freij al Kheiri, a Palestinian  negotiator for civilian affairs who returned to Gaza last month after many  years of deportation.
The Israeli army has pulled out of all of Gaza except for a tiny enclave  that it will evacuate Wednesday. It will redeploy around 19 Jewish colonies  which house 4,000 settlers.
Meanwhile in Jericho, US Secretary of State Warren Christopher was paying  the first visit by a foreign official to the newly autonomous enclave.
He met a delegation led by the PLO's Faisal Husseini and described the  launch of autonomy as "a historic transition."
But just south of the West Bank town of Hebron, HAMAS gunmen shot dead two  Israeli settlers and wounded another in the first such killing since the May 4  accord to implement self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho.
Zakaria al-Agha, a member of the new Palestinian authority, hailed the  handover in Gaza, saying: "This is a big day."
"Today  the Palestinans are in control of of their daily lives, except for  certain security aspects, and as of tomorrow our offices will be open to the  public," he told AFP.
"All beginnings are hard. But the Palestinian people have built the  majority of Arab countries, and among our diaspora we have a lot of university  graduates.
"I hope they will help rebuid our society, and move toward our own state."
Agha was referring to the Palestinian professionals and workers who helped  set up modern adminstrative and banking systems in the oil-rich Gulf states.
They were especially effective in Kuwait before their expulsion from the  emirate when PLO chief Yasser Arafat backed Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein in the  Gulf war.
Gazit was also optimistic: "This is very exciting. We have been here for  27 years and have worked a lot under difficult conditions.
"I think the Palestinians will be capable of of running their own lives.  They will need time and the people must be patient and give them time to  learn."
About 800,000 Palestinians live in Gaza and 15,000 in Jericho.
Under the autonomy agreement the Palestinians are to be responsible for  their daily lives, controlling their economy, education, taxation, health,  social welfare and tourism in Gaza and Jericho.
