Russian-Ukrainian talks on the sharing out of the  Black Sea fleet deadlocked Wednesday, with discussions to continue among a  group of experts, officials said.
Ukrainian Deputy Premier Valeri Shmarov told reporters after three days of  talks that "there are a just a few details left to work out on the basis of  what has already been agreed, and the specialists asked for 12 days to resolve  them." He did not elaborate.
"We have had three days of very hard work," he added.
The sharing of the fleet has proven to be one of the most nagging disputes  between Russia and Ukraine since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
On Tuesday the delegations confirmed an April 22 accord between Moscow and  Kiev which decreed that 164 ships of the fleet would remain with Ukraine and  669 would go to Russia. However, no decision was taken on which ships would go  to which side.
On Wednesday, the negotiations stumbled over the question of the sharing  out of the ports.
Moscow wants to keep the fleet based at Sevastopol and to keep use of  bases in four other ports in Crimea. But Kiev insists that Russia will only be  allowed use of one Crimean port and wants to retain Sevastopol exclusively for  the Ukrainian fleet.
Meanwhile, in Moscow, the Russian Duma called on the Ukrainian and Crimean  parliaments to compromise in their row over the Crimean parliament's adoption  last Friday of a 1992 constitution seen by Kiev as tantamount to a declaration  of independence.
Deputies in the lower house of the Russian parliament said they were  following the unfolding situation in Crimea "with keen worry and concern."
In a message to the two partliaments, the Russians said they were pleased  that "the first steps toward a constructive dialogue and a compromise" had  been taken with negotiations in Kiev Tuesday.
"From our own experience in the construction of the new Russia, we know  how difficult the problems of sharing power are, but we also know that all  attempts to settle by force questions linked to a people's will for  self-determination are doomed to failure," they said.
