Detaining a dissident and unleashing a verbal  broadside through the state media, China's communist regime signaled Tuesday  it was pulling out all the stops to forestall any unrest ahead of the fifth  anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre.
In a speech carried on the front page of all major Chinese newspapers  Tuesday, Prime Minister Li Peng warned that the country's immediate future  depended crucially on maintaining social stability.
Li rammed home the dictum of top leader Deng Xiaoping: "Without a stable  social and political environment, it will be impossible to carry out reforms  or construction."
"In the early period of establishing a socialist market economic  structure, it is of strategic importance to maintain social stability," Li  added.
Publication of Li's speech coincided with the brief detention in Beijing  of Wang Dan, a prominent student leader during the 1989 pro-democracy  movement.
Police officers raided Wang's house to break up an interview he was giving  to the American television network NBC. Wang was questioned for an hour before  being released. The five-member NBC crew was also detained for two hours.
The premier's message echoed the ominous warning delivered by President  Jiang Zemin last week, when he defended the bloody June 4 suppression of the  1989 movement and stressed that national stability would be maintained at any  cost.
In other actions in the past month, the authorities have adopted a panoply  of new legal measures against political opponents and stepped up harassment of  dissidents.
Diplomats said they were especially impressed by the strength of the  campaign, given that it is taking place just weeks before the United States  decides whether China has made the necessary progress in human rights to  warrant renewal of ts most-favoured-nation (MFN) trade status.
"The authorities are making it very clear that they are more than ready to  back up their warnings with action," a western diplomat said, adding that MFN  considerations would not prevent the government from taking firm action to  eliminate any perceived threat to its position.
"MFN is of course an important issue for the Chinese but there is no doubt  that domestic stability is the greater priority," the diplomat said.
That message was hammered home Thursday by Jiang who, in a rare official  reference to the 1989 crackdown, said that without the "resolute measures"  taken by the army, China would not be enjoying its current stability.
Jiang's remarks were the strongest warning to date that the government is  willing to take all measures necessary -- including military force -- to  ensure its self-preservation.
In another explicit reference to the upcoming anniversary, the Legal Daily  reported that a nationwide police campaign was under way to secure stability  "during the summer season."
According to the newspaper, tens of thousands of criminals have been  rounded up in the past two months. There has also been a noticeable surge in  the number of executions across the country.
In the runup to the June 3 deadline for a decision on MFN, China has  released some prominent dissidents on health grounds, but dozens more have  been arrested, placed under close supervision or effectively muzzled.
The country's top legislative body, the standing committee of the National  People's Congress, adopted amendments earlier this month to the public order  law that are clearly aimed at dissidents and opponents of the communist  regime.
The new measures cover the activities of "unregistered associations ...  sects and secret societies which threaten public health ... citizens who have  been deprived of their political rights ... those who break parole conditions,  and those who foment conflict between nationalities and advocate separatism."
