Four gunmen who seized a busload of passengers in  the northern Caucusus freed three hostages early Friday in return for two  million dollars in ransom, the interior ministry here said.
The money was handed over at 6:00 a.m. (0200 GMT) as the bus stood on the  tarmac at the Mineralnoye Vody airport in southern Russia, and two women and a  man walked clear.
The Russian news agency ITAR-TASS later reported that four hostages had  been freed against a ransom of four million dollars.
Before the latest releases the gunmen had been holding 13 people, most of  them women, having already freed most of their hostages, including eight  children.
They were still demanding 10 million dollars and a helicopter Friday. A  plane took off from Moscow late Thursday for Mineralnoye Vody with 10 million  dollars and crime squad detectives aboard.
Two interior ministry swat teams were flown in Thursday evening. First  Deputy Premier Oleg Soskovets and Interior Minister Viktor Yerin were jointly  running operations from the interior ministry, sources at the ministry said.
ITAR-TASS said a helicopter was on standby at the airport, as the  kidnappers had demanded.
The drama began Thursday afternoon when the gunmen hijacked the bus near  Mineralnoye Vody as it travelled from the North Ossetian city of Vladikavkaz  en route to the southern Russian city of Stavropol.
The authorities allowed the bus to approach the town's airport, where  officials earlier said some 800 troops were deployed, surrounded by police  vehicles, according to Stavropol police chief General Ivan Tetereviatnikov.
The security forces handed over four sub-machineguns, a grenade launcher,  four bullet-proof vests, night-sights and a portable television set to the  men, an interior ministry source said.
Police had previously also provided the gunmen with phials of morphine,  security forces said.
The arms had been "prepared" by the interior ministry but the bullet-proof  vests were real, the source said. Television news broadcasts were being  "filtered."
During the afternoon the hostage-takers released the 15 children they were  holding along with 23 men in a operation staggered over several hours,  Tetereviatnikov told AFP by telephone.
The hostage-taking was the fourth to occur in the region in the past five  years.
The last hostage drama occurred last December when 15 schoolchildren were  abducted in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-the-Don.
The four-man gang obtained a helicopter and led authorities on a four-day  airborne pursuit through the Caucasus before releasing their hostages one by  one in return for 10 million dollars in ransom, most of which was recovered.
