The conflict in Yemen has created an acute shortage  of medical supplies and other essential goods, prompting the government to  appeal to the United Nations for emergency aid.
The war between forces loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh and those of  his southern rival Ali Salem al-Baid has forced tens of thousands of people to  flee their homes since it broke out on May 5.
Many hospitals and health centres have been damaged, and farms, irrigation  systems, wells and power stations destroyed.
UN resident coordinator Awni al-Ani said authorities on Monday asked the  United Nations for medical assistance, food, shelter and clothing for  displaced people, along with sanitation equipment, water pumping systems,  generators and vehicles.
The United Nations had recalled all its emergency staff to Yemen, Ani  said. The five emergency and security officials left behind after other staff  were evacuated would soon be boosted to 30.
Discussions were now under way with UN agencies and non-governmental  organisations and an international appeal is to be launched in a few days'  time.
Health Minister Najib Ghanim told AFP the need for medicines, especially  antibiotics, was "desperate," adding that 300 ambulances were also being  sought.
He said there were hundreds of war casualties in the country's hospitals,  the worst affected areas being Lahij and Abyan provinces in the south, and  Shabwa in the east.
There was also an urgent need for medical specialists, according to  Ghanim, as at least 700 had left Yemen since the fighting started, mostly  Russians, Indians and Bulgarians.
An estimated 200 foreign doctors and nurses had left hospitals in Sanaa  alone.
Ghanim said at least 10 million dollars' worth of medical aid was needed  immediately, and some 30 million in the long term.
There was no shortage of blood donors, he added, but Yemen needed  transfusion equipment, refrigerators and kits to test for AIDS and other  diseases such as hepatitis.
The government wanted to provide equal health care in all parts of the  country, Ghanim said, stressing that wounded soldiers from both sides in the  war were being treated in the same hospitals.
Some 100,000 people have left the capital since early May, most of them  after Scud missile attacks.
After the end of the Moslem feast of Al-Fitr last week, only about 50  percent of government or public sector employees turned up for work in Sanaa,  and roughly half the city's shops remained closed.
Deputy Prime Minister Abdelwahab al-Ansi said there was a general shortage  of trucks in Yemen, because many were being used for the war effort, with  deliveries also hampered by petrol scarcity.
Traffic queues up to 1.5 kilometres (almost one mile) long can be found  outside petrol stations, and in Sanaa most of them are closed.
Anisi said oil was being purchased abroad and delivered by tankers, since  supplies from the Marib field east of Sanaa were insufficient and the north  was cut off from Aden refinery in the south.
He said food was "not a problem," as many people had stocked up in the  months of political crisis leading up to the war.
However, Ani said the UN Food Programme would provide basic foodstuffs,  such as wheatflour, oil and beans, for families deprived of their main  breadwinner due to the war.
The United Nations has already delivered 36 tonnes of food to thousands of  Somali refugees hit by the conflict in the south.
