A close friend of French President Francois  Mitterrand, businessman and art lover Pierre Berge, has been charged with  insider trading by selling off shares in the prestigious luxury goods firm  Yves Saint Laurent (YSL).
The second close associate of the socialist president to be indicted on  such a charge, Berge was accused on Monday over the sale of 120,000 shares in  YSL worth 100 million francs (17.8 million dollars).
Mitterrand friend Roger-Patrice Pelat was indicted in 1989 for insider  dealing in a takeover of the US firm American Can by the French aluminium  giant Pechiney. Pelat died shortly after being charged. Judgment is soon to be  handed down on other figures in the Pechiney case.
Berge, who helped the prestigious couturier Yves Saint Laurent to create  YSL in 1958 after he broke with Dior, was charged along with former YSL  financial director Jean-Francis Bretelle.
The two were also accused of breaching a stockbroker firms' monopoly on  sales of quoted shares by selling them privately to the Swiss companies Julius  Baer and Rothschild Bank between July and the middle of September, 1992.
An examining magistrate who indicted the two also heard couturier Yves  Saint Laurent as a witness. Although the designer profited most from the share  deal with 85,000 sold compared with Berge's 35,000, the examining magistrate  ruled that the financial operation was Berge's brainchild and accepted that  Saint Laurent was financially incompetent.
The shares were sold before publication of poor YSL results on September  21, 1992. If they had been sold afterwards, they would have fetched only 70  million francs (11 million dollars).
Berge, 64, had already been fined three million francs (500,000 dollars)  by the Paris Bourse watchdog, the stock market operations committee, over the  YSL case. The fine was reduced by two-thirds on appeal last March.
A supporter of the anti-racist group SOS-Racisme and other left-wing  causes, Berge had also come in for criticism over the terms under which YSL  was sold off to the French oil company Elf Sanofi early in 1993.
Berge negotiated a 53 million dollar payoff for himself and Saint-Laurent  by Sanofi in a deal said to have been influenced by Mitterrand. Sanofi, then  state-owned, vigorously denied the charge.
Elf-Sanofi became the world number three in cosmetics when it took over  YSL's perfumes division, worth about 450 million dollars. YSL haute couture  has a turnover of 44 million dollars.
A financial backer of the pro-Mitterrand weekly the Globe, Berge was  appointed director of the French capital's three opera houses by the president  in 1988 - after a successful re-election campaign that Berge helped  financially.
Francois de Grossouvre, a former presidential aide who shot himself in his  office in the Elysee Palace on April 7, was quoted as blaming money for  gradually corrupting the regime during Mitterrand's two seven-year mandates.
"All this corruption, this easy money... You will see, one day it will all  come out," he was quoted as saying before his death.
Grossouvre, 76, was the second top associate of Mitterrand to kill  himself, after the suicide of former prime minister Pierre Beregovoy in the  wake of the socialists' legislative election defeat in March, 1993.
Grossouvre had reportedly fallen out of favour with Mitterrand after he  willingly gave evidence to anti-corruption judge Thierry Jean-Pierre in the  Pelat case.
Beregovoy killed himself after the Jean-Pierre investigation revealed that  Pelat had made an interest-free loan to the former prime minister.
