A panel investigating the March 23  assassination of front-running presidential candidate Luis Donaldo Colosio  disbanded in disgust Tuesday, charging the government failed to cooperate in  the probe.
The five-member commission appointed by President Carlos Salinas de  Gortari said its probe into the slaying of the ruling Institutional  Revolutionary Party (PRI) hopeful had no government support or access to the  official investigation files.
"Lacking free and legal access to the sum total of the information about  the crime, in the hands of the different (federal) bodies involved in the  investigation, the commission was unable to operate and had no legal support,"  the panel said in a statement.
Its members included a prominent attorney, a journalist, and supporters of  Mexico's top three political parties.
The disbanding further clouds the situation surrounding the slaying amid  rumored suggestions of a political conspiracy, possibly even involving members  of Colosio's own party.
The PRI, which is trying to keep the grip it has had on national power for  65 years, had expected it to be an easy election year for Salinas' hand-picked  successor after the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) took effect  January 1.
Salinas touted the trade pact with Canada and the United States as the  hope for Mexico's future.
But Colosio was gunned down at a Tijuana rally five months ahead of the  August vote, adding to political turmoil in Mexico in a year that has also  dealt the PRI leadership an embarrassing challenge in the form of an  indigenous uprising in Chiapas state, the country's poorest.
The Zapatista rebels have demanded better economic and social conditions,  and a more open democratic system nationwide.
The slaying also threw the August race up in the air.
Colosio's successor as the PRI's hopeful, Ernesto Zedillo, lost some of  his early political luster in Mexico's first televised presidential campaign  debate.
Some polls have given conservative National Action Party candidate Diego  Fernandez the edge, and earlier surveys showed center-left Party of the  Democratic Revolution candidate Cuauhtemoc Cardenas was within reach of a win,  making it thinkable for the first time in decades that the PRI could lose.
Colosio's confessed killer, Mario Aburto Martinez, claimed to have acted  alone, but four others have been arrested or are under investigation, all  former police officers who were members of the shadowy "Tucan group."
Rodolfo Rivaplacio, who hired the team of 40 former policemen to serve as  Colosio's security detail at the Tijuana rally, has been released for lack of  sufficient evidence.
The government's criminal investigation has been led by an assistant  prosecutor, a move seen as highly inappropriate because it would normally have  been at least overseen by the attorney general.
Prosecutor Miguel Montes has said the killing resulted from a "concerted  action," but has declined to elaborate.
That comment lent some credibility to conspiracy theorists and touched off  a flood of ink on such posibilities in the Mexican press.
While the government has been tightlipped about the investigation, press  reports in the past week have claimed the idea of a plot was said not to be  receiving substantial consideration.
And observers said the government's lack of organization and follow-though  on the probe is just the latest in a series of cases, criminal and civil,  which have been solved, or in which the official story has been questioned.
High-profile examples include last year's assassination of Guadalajara  Archbishop Juan Jose Posadas -- in which federal police allegedly allowed  suspects time to flee the crime scene -- and a string of explosions that  rocked Guadalajara and killed 200 people after combustible liquid leaked into  the city sewer system.
The liquid allegedly seeped from facilities at a state-owned Pemex oil  refinery.
