Rwandan rebels advanced further Friday against  battle-weary government soldiers who have started fleeing the capital Kigali  where fierce artillery battles raged through the night, a UN spokesman said.
Hutu militiamen blamed for the slaughter of hundreds of thousands of  people abandoned several positions in Kigali as rebels pressed what could be  their final onslaught on the capital.
Soldiers took over several checkpoints from the militias to try and hold  them against a barrage of mortar and artillery fire from advancing Tutsi-led  rebels, he said.
"Small arms fire and intermittent mortar fire and shelling continued this  morning after a night of heavy shelling," Kabia said by telephone from Kigali.
Leaders of the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) on Thursday bowed to  pressure from the United Nations and agreed to open ceasefire talks with army  commanders in Kigali on Monday, UN spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
UN military sources meanwhile said a rebel victory in Kigali was "only a  few days away."
Outside the capital, the RPF claimed in a radio broadcast to have captured  the key market town of Ruhango, tightening the noose around nearby Gitarama  where the self-proclaimed Hutu government fled last month as carnage engulfed  the capital.
UN officials could not confirm the fall of the Ruhango, 50 kilometres (30  miles) south of Kigali.
Fierce battles also raged around the northern towns of Rulindo and  Ruhengeri, which was a stronghold of the late president Juvenal Habyarimana.
Habyarimana's death in an alleged April 6 rocket attack on his plane  unleashed a tide of bloodletting in which 200,000 to 500,000 Rwandans have  been hacked, clubbed, burned or shot to death, many by Hutu militias which he  formed and armed in the year before his death, relief officials said.
Most victims were minority Tutsis or Hutu opposition supporters, and  thousands of Hutus are fleeing Kigali, fearing that the expected takeover by  the mainly Tutsi rebels may trigger reprisal killings for the massacres.
Diplomats and UN military sources welcomed the rebel agreement to discuss a  ceasefire with the army, but cautioned that the talks may come after the fall  of Kigali and the battered and demoralised government forces could be forced  to surrender.
"They're short of ammunition, their morale is low, their government has  run away to a town outside the capital, and they're scared of taking the blame  for the massacres," a UN military source in Kigali said.
A rebel commander will meet an army brigadier in Kigali on Monday at a  UN-mediated meeting.
But the rebels refuse to talk to the "clique of killers" in the all-Hutu  government which was proclaimed after Habyarimana's death despite peace  accords under which a coalition administration including the RPF should have  been formed.
The United Nations, which came under fire for withdrawing all but 400 of  its 2,500 troops from Rwanda soon after the bloodbath began, is struggling to  muster enough soldiers for a planned new peacekeeping force of 5,500.
UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali complained this week that the  world had turned its back on the "genocide" in Rwanda.
Member-states are reluctant to send soldiers to central African nation  after the failure of thousands of UN and US peacekeepers to end anarchy in  Somalia, diplomats said.
Rwanda's bloodbath is spilling over into neighbouring countries, hit by an  influx of hundreds of thousands of refugees.
About 320,000 Rwandans have fled to Tanzania alone.
Bloated and bleached corpses are being swept down the Kagera river into  Lake Victoria, forcing neighbouring Uganda to declare a health emergency and  pay fisherman two dollars for each body they retrieve from the river before it  washes into the lake.
