The International Natural Rubber Organisation  (INRO) opened talks here Monday, during which a new buffer stock manager will  be selected from six candidates proposed by the United States and the European  Union, officials said.
"The US nominated two candidates, while the EU gave four names. But it is  basically a decision that has to be made by the consumers themselves at this  (weeklong) INRO session," said Sucharit Promdej of Thailand.
Sucharit is the executive secretary of the Association of Natural Rubber  Producing Countries (ANRPC).
Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Thailand are in INRO. ANRPC's other  members are India and Papua New Guinea.
INRO's present buffer stock manager, Aldo Hofmeister, is due to retire in  July after spending the past nine years trying to satisfy 26 governments  through buying and selling stockpiled rubber to stabilise prices.
"By tradition, the buffer stock manager is an American," said the 71-year  old Illinois-born Hofmeister, whose two predecessors were from the United  States.
The change comes as members of the Kuala Lumpur-based INRO try to bridge  their differences and prepare for the conclusion of a new global pact in  Geneva in October.
INRO groups six producing countries - Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia,  Nigeria, Ivory Coast and Sri Lanka -- with 20 consuming countries, including  members of the European Union, the United States, Japan and China.
It administers the 14-year old International Natural Rubber Agreement  (INRA) that has economic provisions with a "may-buy," "may-sell" and a  "must-buy," "must-sell" mechanism to guide the buffer stock manager in his  market interventions.
INRA expired in December and has been extended for a year pending  conclusion of negotiations for the successor pact.
Farouk Ishak of Malaysia, who is spokesman for the producers said  Hofeister "has done a good job and has kept within provisions that govern the  role of the buffer stock manager."
Producers have in the past criticised Hofmeister for being slow and  ineffective in intervening to prop up prices in a bearish market.
INRO members, who met last month to negotiate the new pact, are to meet for  their second round of negotiations in Geneva from October 3-14 to hammer out  the new accord.
"The main issue in the negotiations is the economic provisions that relate  to the buffer stock pricing mechanism. Consumers don't want any changes, but  producers want the whole mechanism reviewed," Farouk said.
"Producers want a new pact hammered out somehow by year-end. There will no  more extension," he said.
Producers, who met among themselves on the weekend ahead of the INRO  session, would further scrutinise consumers' proposals at a meeting in Medan,  Indonesia, in early August, Sucharit said.
The ANRPC meeting was chaired by Rosediana Suharto, spokesperson for the  producers in the INRA negotiations in Geneva. She is director of Indonesia's  national export centre.
