Southern leaders put forward a seven-point ceasefire  plan here Friday as fighting between rival north and south Yemeni forces  continued to rage outside the southern stronghold of Aden.
The plan, proposed by the southern Yemen Socialist Party (YSP), called for  an immediate end to the nine-day war and the creation of a national unity  government.
But it was swiftly rejected by northern leaders as "nothing new." They  repeated demands made at the beginning of the conflict for southern leaders to  surrender.
A spokesman in Sanaa told AFP by telephone that the north demanded the  surrender of the "war criminal" ousted vice-president Ali Salem al-Baid and  "all those responsible for the war, so that they can be judged for war crimes."
The YSP proposed the two armies should separate and be "withdrawn to the  positions they held before the war."
A source in Aden said a national unity government should be charged with  "wiping out the consequences of the war" and conducting an inquiry into "those  responsible for the war."
But the northern spokesman said there was "no need to form a national  unity government, since the legitimate government is already in place."
The rival armies of former North and South Yemen have been locked in civil  war since May 5, shattering four years of uneasy union between the  conservative north and the Marxist south.
The YSP plan, drawn up by the party's political office, also called for  prisoner releases, for the rights of political parties to be recognised and  that the lives, goods and rights of citizens be protected.
And it demanded "equal compensation for all the victims of the war  (...)  and for all Yemenis killed in the fighting to be considered martyrs."
Meanwhile a southern military spokesman said southern forces had brought  down three northern planes in fighting close to Bab al-Mandeb, at the mouth of  the Red Sea, and sunk a northern warship off Aden.
The reports were hotly denied by an official spokesman in Sanaa who said  that the north "does not have any warships or patrol boats in the area."
But southerners said one of the pilots had been taken hostage and would  testify that his plane had been brought down when his health had recovered  sufficiently.
Earlier a southern enovy on a visit to Damascus told Syrian President  Hafez al-Assad that a new front had opened at Bab al-Mandab, 100 kilometres  (60 miles) west along the coast from Aden.
He told Syrian radio, in an interview monitored by the BBC, that "this is  detrimental both to Yemen and international navigation."
North and south spokesman said earlier that both sides were also battling  for control of Al Daleh, about 90 kilometres (55 miles) north of Aden, with  both sides claiming they had the upper hand.
Al Daleh lies in the mountains commanding a key position on a strategic  route towards the main southern air base at Al Anad.
The YSP proposal came as Arab League mediators were in Yemen in a bid to  try to broker a ceasfire agreement.
They were waiting to meet with President Ali Abdallah Saleh, a northerner,  to try to convince him to make peace with his southern rival Baid.
Aden meanwhile was making preparations to shelter refugees fleeing south  from the fighting around Al Daleh.
Despite limited resources, schools were being used as makeshift  accommodation and supplies of basic foodstuffs were being handed out.
Baid, who was sacked last week as vice-president by the northern-dominated  parliament in the capital Sanaa, has said a ceasefire would depend on the  withdrawal of northern forces from the south.
Saleh, has said he would only accept a ceasefire if the southerners agreed  to accept his government, respect the country's unity and put all armed forces  under the government's control.
