Design errors in a Japan's only  nuclear-processing plant caused the disappearance of enough plutonium to make  nine nuclear bombs, plant officials said.
"I swear to God that nothing was misused," said Watarase Masaharu, public  relations director at the Plutonium Fuel Production Facility, Tokai Works, in  Tokai-mura, 100 kilometers (62 miles) northeast of Tokyo.
In an attempt to prove it is almost impossible to get the radioactive  material through tight security, officials opened the plant Friday to Japanese  and foreign journalists for the first time since it was set up in 1988.
Japan came in for international criticism last week after admitting that  70 kilograms (154 pounds) of plutonium, enough to make nine nuclear bombs,  remained "stuck" somewhere in the installation works.
Yoichiro Kishimoto, nuclear fuel engineering division director, said all  the plutonium could be accounted for at the older plant, which was manually  operated.
"But we have a problem in the new factory, where entire processes are  automatic," Kishimoto said.
Design problems led to the disappearance of the plutonium, he said. "We  have to admit that before moving here we failed to sufficiently think about  possible accumulation of it."
The nation's first and only plutonium fuel production plant has so far  turned three tonnes of plutonium into nuclear fuel.
The quiet seaside village of Tokai has already been in the limelight. Last  year the Akatsuki-maru freighter brought 1.5 tonnes of plutonium from France,  despite strong criticism from around the world. The plutonium is still stored  here.
About 1,200 people work at the plant, but no one is allowed near the  "glove boxes," where plutonium is fashioned into pellets for fuel. Several of  the boxes could be seen through the window, but no plutonium was visible.
Tokai works director Kenji Miyahara acknowledged that "the international  community is becoming more concerned" over the plant. But he insisted the  management had followed the law to the letter and been subject to "strict  inspections."
Officials promised that new work systems would reduce the amount of  plutonium that disappears.
"We want to dismantle and clean the old equipment to recover the plutonium  inside the installation as soon as possible," said Hisataka Ando, nuclear  material control division deputy director.
"But we can't be sure of the timing because dismantling the plant is  technically not easy and because we still have to go through procedures,  including talks with the government," Ando said.
"It could be within a year but might not be," he added.
An engineer at the plant said equipment introduced last month was expected  to more than halve the amount of missing plutonium in the fabrication process.
"The missing amount should be dramatically reduced," the engineer said.  "But it's impossible to achieve total elimination even though the nuclear  programme has been slow down as announced."
Japan, bowing to global concern, decided last week to delay a new nuclear  programme and postpone construction of a fast-beeder reactor to produce  plutonium from the late 1990s till the early 2000s.
The decision came a month after the first experimental fast-breeder  reactor Monju was commissioned April 5 at Tsuruga, 350 kilometers (220 miles)  west of Tokyo.
Japan and France remain the world's only users of fast-breeder reactors  which produce more plutonium than they consume. Other industrialised nations  abandoned such projects because of the complexity, cost and risks involved.
