Hundreds of mourners chanting "Death to Baid"  attended the funeral here Wednesday of nine victims of Monday's Scud missile  attack on the Yemeni capital.
The bodies, covered in white shrouds, were first brought to the central  Kubit al-Mutawakil (Dome of the Faithful) mosque in Red Crescent vans for  prayers. Mourners rushed to carry them inside.
Officials in Sanaa said at least 13 people were killed and more than 100  injured when the missile struck a densely-populated area of the capital late  Monday.
Mourners later carried the bodies aloft on stretchers down one of the main  streets of Sanaa to the At-Tahrir (Freedom) cemetery.
The victims included three children, one of them a toddler buried next to  its mother.
A crowd of up to 500 stretched down the street. At the gates of the  cemetery they chanted "Death to Ali Salem al-Baid" -- the leader of southern  Yemeni forces at war with northern troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah  Saleh since May 5.
Baid has been appointed president of the new Yemeni Democratic Republic  which he declared in the south, provoking the anger of his rival Saleh.
"Allah does not like Baid, because he is a very bad man," shouted one man  through a loudspeaker.
Another mourner vowed: "We'll destroy all Scuds."
More Koranic verses were chanted during the burials, as gravediggers  lowered the bodies into the graves and then filled them in with stone blocks  and wet clay.
"This is a criminal act. More rockets will increase our determination to  cleanse our Yemeni land of the criminals' dirty bodies," said Hussein  al-Sayaghy, a 42-year-old engineer.
"We've exhausted all negotiations to convince these people about  democracy, but they refused to accept anything less than ruling us with their  communist ideology. That's against the people's will," he said.
The Yemeni daily Al-Thawra Wednesday published a cartoon depicting Baid as  a murderer with fangs strangling a young girl, wearing a headband with the  word "unity" on it, and stabbing her with a traditional curved dagger, or  jambiya, dripping with blood.
