Fredrik Lindgren put Swedish golf back in the  limelight in Rome on Friday when he shot eight birdies in a career best 64 to  share the half-way lead in the Italian Open with Englishman Paul Eales.
Both stand on the nine-under par mark of 135 after Eales added a 70 to his  opening 65.
New Zealander Frank Nobilo and Argentinian Eduardo Romero share third  place on eight under, with South African John Bland seven under and  Australians Wayne Riley and Peter O'Malley one further back along with  Ulsterman Ronan Rafferty, Germany's Alexander Cejka and another Kiwi,  defending champion Greg Turner.
Lindgren, a 28-year-old from Falsterbo on the southern tip of Scandinavia,  had birdies at all four short holes of the Marco Simone course and is now set  to surpass his previous best performances of a disappointing season.
He has been in the top 20 three times this season but no higher than 17th  and he got himself disqualified from the Portuguese Open when he played by  mistake with a ball not approved by the Royal and Ancient lawmakers.
Lindgren also had four other birdies, getting home in 31, but the eight  under par score which equalled the first day mark set by Cejka will not be  ratified as a record because prefereed lies are in operation.
Eales, with a chance of going top of Europe's Order of Merit this weekend,  made three mistakes during the day - two on the course for bogeys and the  other before he teed off.
"I forgot to put some food in my bag," he said. "I've been getting advice  from a nutritionist about the need to eat regularly to keep your concentration  level up.
"It was an oversight and I didn't realise until the tenth, but I didn't  panic and I'm delighted with 70. I wasn't playing particularly well and it was  a battle of patience."
He actually stood three clear after birdies on the first, second and  eighth, but missed the green at the short 11th and three-putted the 13th.
Masters champion Jose Maria Olazabal kept a bogey off his card, but  birdied only the long 12th and at three-under is six off the pace.
First-day leader Cejka also had just a single birdie and stumbled to a 74.       str/am94
