South Korea on Saturday aired worries over a North  Korean telex to the IAEA saying was preparing for the change of fuel rods in a  five megawat nuclear reactor without outside inspectors present.
"It is extremely regrettable that North Korea gave notice of its decision  to prepare to go ahead with the rod change on its own," a foreign ministry  statement said.
The United States has warned that Pyongyang could extract enough plutonium  from the spent fuel to make four or five nuclear bombs. Washington says it is  vital that North Korea allow inspection and sampling of the rods.
The foreign ministry statement added that South Korea hoped the  International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) could clarify the situation when its  monitors leave for North Korea this weekend.
"We stress the crucial importance of sampling and securing the rods as  demanded by the IAEA and remind North Korea that the nuclear problem should  not be taken to a destructive phase by unilaterally changing the fuel rods."
A ministry spokesman told AFP that the wording of the telex left it "far  from clear" as to whether "they have started or are preparing to start"  changing the rods at the five megawatt experimental reactor at the Yongbyong  nuclear complex, 90 kilometers (56 miles) north of Pyongyang.
"We are waiting for the IAEA report," he added.
In Vienna on Friday, IAEA spokesman David Kyd said the nuclear watchdog's  inspectors, scheduled to leave for Pyongyang over the weekend, should "be able  to do most of their work, which is satisfactory for us."
Kyd added that the trip was expected to last eight days but could be  extended if necessary. He also confirmed that North Korea had responded  positively to an invitiation from the IAEA to hold talks on narrowing  differences on the scope of inspections.
In Washington, State Department spokesman David Johnson indicated Friday  that a third round of high-level talks with Pyongyang hinged on the outcome of  the new IAEA inspections.
Johnson said Washington would consider setting a date for the talks after  the inspections were completed.
Plans for the third round of talks were called off when the IAEA said in  March their inspectors had not been given full access to the sites they  weanted to visit, inlcuding a crrucial radio-chamical laboratory.
North Korea contended then that the UN nuclear watchdog had tried to go  beyond its mandate.
