A missile attack on the Yemeni capital killed up to  20 people and wounded more than 100 others, most of them in a hospital caring  for Somali refugees and soldiers hurt in earlier fighting, officials said  Tuesday.
Rescuers dug through the rubble Tuesday for survivors of the attack  carried out the previous night by forces loyal to southern leader Ali Salem  al-Baid, the officials added.
However, the southern Yemen defence ministry accused troops backing Yemeni  President Ali Abdallah Saleh, a northerner, of "fabricating" the attack and  denied its forces had fired a missile.
Doctor Ahmad Arami, deputy manager at Al-Jomhuriya Hospital, said the  missile killed between 15 to 20 people. Security officials said most of the  victims were women, children and the elderly.
The missile landed near the presidential palace and completely destroyed  eight houses, damaged 24 others and blew out the windows of the Jomhuriya  hospital 150 meters (yards away).
The blast wounded two doctors, eight nurses and 70 patients at the  hospital, officials said. Some 30 more people were wounded elsewhere.
The hospital was caring for more than 20 Somali refugees who were  seriously wounded when shells hit their camp at Al-Kud on the southern coast  shortly after war broke out on May 5, Arami said.
He did not say if they suffered additional injuries.
Mansur Ahmad Taha, a soldier who was shot in the foot during a tank battle  at Amran before the war started, said he was hit on the shoulder by flying  glass as he lay in his hospital bed.
"Those who could walk ran away but we could not," Taha said.
The attack cut electricity to the building as surgeons were operating on  some patients.
Previous missile attacks in the three-week civil war killed 25 people in  Sanaa on May 11 and four in the southern capital Aden on Sunday.
A soldier displayed blackened bits of metal -- all that remained of the  missile which was described by many as a Scud like the ones used by Iraq  during the 1991 Gulf War.
In the eastern port of Mukalla where he has set up base, Baid conceded  that northern forces had made a "breakthrough" in the oil-rich Shabwa region  but would never reach the production fields.
Baid said that oil production was continuing in the Massila field at more  than 150,000 barrels a day.
"There is a breakthrough from Maareb (east of the capital Sanaa) towards  Shabwa, but they will never reach the oilfields they are after," he said.
Baid, who has declared an independent state in south Yemen ending the four  year union with the north, said negotiations were underway with the Canadian  oil company Canoxy on revenues, which were usually paid to the government in  Sanaa.
An official government statement read on Sanaa Radio said the public  prosecutor's office had issued arrest warrants for 15 southern leaders,  including Baid.
The others included former defense minister Haitham Qassem Taher, former  prime minister Haidar Abu Bakr al-Attas, and ex-oil minister Saleh Abu Bakr  Ibn Hussainoun.
Attas was appointed prime minister of the breakaway Yemen Democratic  Rebulic proclaimed last Saturday.
In Moscow, the foreign ministry said Russia has asked the United Arab  Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia to try and "exert their influence" in the  Yemeni conflict.
The statement from a ministry official came as the UAE implied Tuesday it  recognized the separate state.
The official said that the last Russian citizens still in Yemen would be  evacuated in coming days. Some 900 Russians lived in Yemen before the civil  war.
