Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said  Friday the US economy shows no signs of an inflation problem or slowing down.
Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Greenspan said the economy  did not present "widespread indications" of resurging inflation.
"To date, underlying cost increases have been absorbed with little  evidence that they have yet passed through into prices for final products," he  said.
"If we are successful in our current endeavor there will not be an  increase in overall inflation," he said, referring to the Fed's four  short-term interest rates hikes since February 4 to ward off inflationary  pressures.
The Federal Reserve was criticized by the US administration and Congress  as having moved too soon to curb inflation, at the risk of scuttling the US  economic recovery.
Greenspan defended the central bank's preemptive moves, saying a delay  would have forced a higher rate increase later that would stifle economic  growth.
"To be successful we must implement necessary monetary policy adjustments  in advance of the potential emergence of inflationary pressures, so as to  forestall their actual occurence," he said, recalling that changes in US  monetary policy are not felt in the economy for at least a year.
"Our judgment was that with the financial conditions of both borrowers and  lenders greatly improved, such action wouldn't impede satisfactory economic  growth but rather would help such growth to be sustained," he told senators  reviewing the independent central bank's policy.
He said the central bank had no set target for limiting inflation, but  that "we are realizing that it is increasingly important that the lower we get  under five percent inflation the more stable the economy is."
Greenspan's remarks came several hours after the government said the US  economy grew three percent in the first three months of the year, sharply  higher than its initial estimate of 2.6 percent growth. Experts had expected a  downward revision to 2.4 percent.
An inflation index linked to US gross domestic product rose 2.6 percent,  unchanged from the original estimate.
The first-quarter GDP growth followed a robust seven percent increase in  the final quarter of 1993. The year-end surge triggered concerns that the  economy was overheating, and inflationary pressures would soon follow.
Friday's Commerce Department report said higher spending by the government  and consumers and a less severe drop in exports in the first quarter offset a  drop in business inventories.
Greenspan said the economy was as good as he had seen in a very long period  of time.
There was clearly no evidence of a diminishing in the numbers for the  current second quarter, he added. He refused to give GDP growth figures.
Greenspan, pointing to "extraordinary" gains in the economy, said the Fed  was "increasingly persuaded that the lower rate of inflation induces a higher  rate of productivity."
He said it was too early to determine whether the Fed's modest rate hikes  had slowed consumer spending. But he said that the increases had allowed the  financial markets to avoid being disconnected from the economy.
It was that dislocation between the markets and the economic reality that  led to the Fed's first increase in short-term interest rates since 1989.
The Fed has raised the federal funds rate -- the overnight interbank loan  rate -- by a quarter percentage point interest four times. The last time, May  17, it also raised its discount rate half a percentage point to 3.5 percent.
The rise in the discount rate -- the interest the Fed charges for direct  loans to banks -- was the first in five years.
