Southern leader Ali Salem Baid has gathered  tribal leaders in this port city to seek their support for his outnumbered  army against the northern troops of Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh.
Baid was focusing on the Awkali tribe's 20,000 fighters to help check  Saleh's advance in the oil province of Shabwa, in eastern Yemen like Mukalla,  an AFP correspondent reported Tuesday.
But the tribe was undecided, mainly because of "bad relations" with Baid's  Yemen Socialist Party which ruled the former Marxist South Yemen, southern  official Mohsen Mohammad Farid acknowledged.
Farid was named deputy prime minister of the Yemen Democratic Republic  (YDR) which declared its independence on Saturday under the leadership of  Baid, who moved here from his Aden stronghold a week ago.
"The tribes need time to realise that the situation has changed, and to  rally. They have steered clear of the war since it broke out" on May 5, Farid  told a small group of reporters.
"So they are not budging, and they say what's going on does not concern  them."
The Awkalis' reluctance to fight is obvious at the Hadhramaut Hotel where  1,000 fighters, armed with Kalashnikov assault rifles and traditional carved  daggers, are being housed and fed during the negotiations with Baid.
Sitting on a rock next to his bungalow in the newly-built hotel facing the  Gulf of Aden, one of the fighters bursts into laughter when asked what he will  do. And then he says: "Resist, of course."
The civil war and the tribal invasion have caused distress for the staff.
"Last month, the occupacy rate was 82 percent. French, Italian and German  tourists filled the hotel. Now we've just received a cancellation for a group  of 120 French people," complained hotel manager Ismail Zakaria, an Indian.
He has not heard from his family in Bangalore for the past 20 days, as  Mukalla is totally cut off from the rest of the world, with telephone and  telex lines down.
"I just want to save my skin, and get away from this place on the first  evacuation," he said.
Six ships were moored off Mukalla port, the closest loading facility to   Massila oilfield. The 175,000 inhabitants of the city appeared indifferent to  the battles raging hundred of kilometers away.
Northern forces have made a "breakthrough" in the oil-rich Shabwa but will  never reach the production fields, Baid said Monday. Oil production was  continuing in the Massila field at more than 150,000 barrels a day.
He said negotiations were underway with the Canadian oil company Canoxy on  revenues, which were usually paid to the government in Sanaa, capital of the  Yemen which was unified four years ago.
