Five years after pro-democracy demonstrators were  massacred at Tiananmen Square here, the world's last communist dinosaur is  fighting furiously to reconcile totalitarianism with economic liberalisation.
Since army tanks rolled into the square on June 4, 1989, crushing the huge  democracy movement that had deeply shaken the authorities here, Deng  Xiaoping's China has seen spectacular economic development and can now boast  the world's highest rate of economic growth.
The average living standard in China has also improved, and the Chinese  now enjoy nearly complete freedom in the field of business.
But along with changes on the economic front, there has been no  accompanying political reform in China as the communist party continues to  repress dissents and monopolise power.
"On the whole, the leadership is telling China: Consume and get rich, but  stay out of politics and everything will be fine," said a Western diplomat  here.
But liberalising a huge economy at top speed while stifling democracy  seems a tall order and will be difficult to sustain, analysts here said,  primarily because the economic reforms promote a certain degree of free  expression which runs contrary to the interests of the party.
This holds true particularly in culture and the media. The official  silence which greeted the recent success at the Cannes film festival of  Chinese film director Zhang Yimou's "To Live" illustrates the tough position  the government has put itself in.
Yet the regime has even more serious problems. Economic reform has brought  with it inflation of 25 percent in China's larger cities, and has caused  millions of layoffs in loss-making state industries which are already  paralysed by strikes because they cannot meet their payrolls.
In the countryside, matters are even more grim because excess manpower is  estimated at over 100 million people and rural uprisings are on the increase.
On the one hand, the government has increasing problems in managing the  economy, and on the other, the way it tackles these problems is not generally  approved of by a population which realises the market economy has its downside  as well.
The grumbling has increased as quickly as the spate of corruption, one of  the main targets of the 1989 demonstrators, which has continued to infiltrate  all sectors of the country with its spread made easier by the lack of  democratic checks and balances.
The children of China's leaders are today occupy practically all the top  positions of formidable industrial and financial empires, and local cadres  think first and foremost of their bank accounts and not the welfare of the  masses.
Rather than introducing political reforms, the authorities have instead  clamped down further. They have beefed up the policing system, imprisoned  dissidents, and censored the press and the arts.
"The government constantly raises the spectre of chaos in the country and  is counting on the material satisfaction of a large portion of the population  as well as foreign investors who look to the country's stability," the  diplomat said.
Frequent calls for the maintenance of public order betray a real worry on  the part of the authorities, who do not underestimate the trouble in store for  them if social and political demands are mixed.
The declining health of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping, who will be 90 in  August, complicates the picture, analysts said. "Who knows exactly what will  happen at the top when the patriarch joins Marx and Mao?" asked the diplomat.
Without doubt it is for these reasons the chief of state and party leader,  Jiang Zemin, moved to justify the massacres for the first time in five years,  warning that the country's stability would be maintained "at all costs."
