China is willing to make more gestures on human  rights but it wants the United States to understand its need to clamp down on  dissent to preserve social stability, The New York Times said Thursday.
American experts who recently met with Chinese leaders told the daily in  Beijing that China wants to protect its 30-billion-dollar export trade with  Washington but not if this encourages dissent.
As the June 3 deadline for renewing China's Most Favored Nation (MFN)  trade privileges draws near, pressures grow to have US President Bill Clinton  keep his campaign promise of withholding the tariff benefits if China's record  on human rights does not improve significantly.
"China's leaders face an excruciating dilemma," said David Lampton,  President of the National Committee on US-China relations, who has just  competed a week of discussions with Chinese Communist Party officials.
"They cannot send a signal of accomodation to the United States without  seemingly encouraging dissidents at home, and they cannot stifle dissent at  home without further complicating relations with Washington," he said.
That is the reason behind the mixed signals China has been sending lately,  other experts said.
Besides the traditional political dissidents, economic reform "is creating  enemies as it never did before," and Chinese leaders are concerned about  social unrest rising from widespread unemployment, inflation and rampant  corruption, the sources added.
Clinton faces a similar predicament since withdrawing MFN status would  harm trade and slow economic recovery at home and alienate a key partner in  Asian stability, but renewing it would damage his image and draw fire from  Congress and human rights groups.
In a last minute bid to have China toe the MFN line, Clinton recently sent  a special envoy to Beijing, whom a senior administration official identified  as former secretary of state and ambassador to Japan Michael Armacost.
Armacost spent several days earlier this month reviewing "in painstaking  detail" the seven areas where China must make significant progress if it wants  to maintain its MFN status, said the official who requested anonymity.
Some progress was made in several areas, said the senior official, adding  that Washington expected other gestures soon.
