PLO leader Yasser Arafat said here Wednesday that his  recent call for a Moslem holy war should not be construed as hostile to Israel  but rather an appeal to strive for complete Middle East peace.
But Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Arafat's explanation that  his remarks had been misinterpreted was only the "minimum" that he expected to  hear.
Controversy flared Tuesday when Israeli radio broadcast what it said was a  speech given by Arafat May 10 in a Johannesburg mosque in which the  Palestinian leader called on Moslems to "take part in a jihad (holy war) to  liberate Jerusalem."
Arafat was in South Africa for Nelson Mandela's inauguration as president.
He said here Wednesday at a press conference attended by Peres that his  comments had been misunderstood. The two men shook hands as Peres arrived.
Speaking in English, he said, "it seems that they are trying to squeeze me  with false means."
He said that after praying at the Johannesburg mosque, "the worshippers  asked me to make a religious speech" and he insisted that his use of "jihad"  was a religious phraseology.
"For your information," he told reporters, "we can say, 'I will continue  my jihad to achieve peace' in an Islamic, in a religious way. We can say 'I  will continue my jihad to do my work well, till I will be able to bring  Christians, Moslems and Jews to play together in Jerusalem.'"
He insisted: "Some extremists have changed the religious terminology into  a political terminology. It is not my fault."
Arafat and Peres were here for ceremonies honoring Norway's role in  brokering the Israeli-PLO peace agreement.
But Peres told Oslo television: "He has made a mistake and is trying to  repair it and I can only hope that he will respect the Declaration of  Principles on autonomy and his commitments to end violence and terrorism."
US Secretary of State Warren Christopher also called on Arafat to respect  his pledge to end violence.
Christopher said: "It is very important that chairman Arafat keeps his  commitment to end violence and terrorism. It is important for him to  understand the importance of the remarks he made."
The secretary, speaking during a joint press conference in Cairo with  Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, said he was "looking forward to  clarification" of Arafat's remarks.
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin had warned earlier Tuesday in Israel  that if Arafat's remarks were confirmed, it "calls into question the peace  process."
Rabin said at a press conference with Christopher that Israel would "not  accept such violations and continue the process." Christopher said he endorsed  Rabin's statement.
Arafat pledged an end to violence in letters exchanged with Israel in  September.
Meanwhile in Jerusalem Likud opposition party leader Benjamin Netanyahu  called on the government to "suspend all negotiations with the PLO and not to  proceed with any further military withdrawals."
Netanyahu told Israeli television that if Rabin did not react to Arafat's  call for a jihad, Israel would finish by withdrawing from the whole of the  West Bank as well as "accepting Palestinian sovereignty in East Jerusalem and  the right for all Palestinian refugees to return."
Wednesday's official agenda said Arafat and Peres would take part in the  inauguration of a sculpture offered to the Norwegian people for their  contribution to the Middle East peace process.
Oslo hosted secret meetings in 1993 that started off contacts between the  two parties after 45 years of war. The contacts culminated in last September's  agreement granting limited autonomy to the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town  of Jericho.
Twenty-seven years of Israeli military occupation ended Wednesday as Peres  and Arafat were here to thank Norway.
