Japan will send its top trade negotiators to the  United States as early as next week in a bid to break the impasse in stalled  trade talks, International Trade and Industry Minister Eijiro Hata said Friday.
The announcement followed growing signs here that the United States had  eased its tough stance in the talks, which collapsed in February.
Asked if this was the case, Hata told a news conference: "Rather than  softening, it's better to think that the atmosphere is such that both sides  must do their best."
The negotiators going to Washington are Sozaburo Okamatsu, vice minister  for international affairs at the international trade and industry ministry,  and Sadayuki Hayashi, deputy foreign minister for economic affairs.
Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa told a separate news conference that the  government had decided to accelerate moves toward an early resumption of the  talks. The decision came during his meeting earlier Friday with Prime Minister  Tsutomu Hata and Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroshi Kumagai, he said.
But Kakizawa, who held talks here Thursday with US ambassador Walter  Mondale after telephoning Secretary of State Warren Christopher, said that  Washington had asked Tokyo to avoid discussing details of the negotiations in  public.
"The American side asked us not to make disclosures until the resumption  of the talks," he said.
The two sides made similar promises last year, vowing not to publicise  their respective proposals in Japanese business sectors targetted for action  in the wide-ranging talks aimed at reducing the country's huge trade surplus.
But the promises soon proved to be hollow as the two sides started to  clash over the wording of an agreement reached in July between President Bill  Clinton and Kiichi Miyazawa, who was prime minister at the time.
The agreement called for "objective criteria" to monitor progress in  implementing measures in priority sectors, which fall into the three broad  categories of automotive trade, finance and Japanese government procurement.
After the talks collapsed during former prime minister Morihiro Hosokawa's  visit to Washington in February, the United States invoked the threat of trade  sanctions, including the Super 301 provision of its omnibus trade law.
But Japanese reports say Washington is now softening its approach given  the fragile nature of Hata's new cabinet -- Japan's first minority government  in 39 years -- and the negative impact of trade friction on currency markets.
Bowman Cutter, deputy assistant to Clinton on economic policy, was quoted  as saying Thursday that Washington would not resort to retaliatory trade  measures against Japan if some progress were achieved in the talks.
"We will not impose sanctions if there is progress in Japan's actions," he  said in an exclusive interview with the Nihon Keizai Shimbun.
"With only two months remaining until the (Group of Seven) summit in  Naples in July, I don't think we can settle everything," he said, referring to  macroeconomic measures and the three priority sectors.
But "we can't say that settling the government procurement issue, which is  closest to agreement, would be enough. We still need efforts to get close to  agreement in all priority areas and macroeconomic measures."
Cutter said Washington was still "waiting for an answer from Japan" to  three conditions for resuming the talks -- compromises in macroeconomic  policies, the purpose of the talks and objective criteria.
Clinton administration officials "understand the difficulty" Hata faces in  reforming the Japanese tax system although "it is obvious that tax reduction  is the best way to reduce Japan's current surplus," he said.
As for the other conditions, Cutter said Washington wants to clarify that  the aim of the talks was "to increase imports and market access in each  sector".
He also insisted that the United States was not pushing for numerical  targets as objective criteria, the newspaper said.
