The new Palestinian Authority has money to pay  the June salaries of 7,000 civil servants it has inherited from the former  Israeli administration of the Gaza Strip, a senior Palestinian official said  Monday.
The statement came after Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin warned Sunday that  Israel would no longer pay the 25,000 Palestinians who worked for the Israelis  in Gaza.
"Israel has already paid the May wages of the 7,000 Palestinians who were  employed by the military administration," said Khader al-Kudra, the  authority's legal adviser for civilian affairs.
"We have the money to pay them in June and we hope that (PLO chairman)  Yasser Arafat will come with a budget to cover the rest of the year.
"But the salaries are not the problem, the problem is to re-build the  economy of the Gaza Strip which has been destroyed during 27 years of autonomy.
"And to do that we hope that the countries which have committed themselves  to helping us, will do so quickly".
Kudra said the 18,000 Palestinians taken on as labourers by the Israelis  since March 1993 in a bid to alleviate mass unemployment had been laid off at  the end of April.
Palestinian leaders in Gaza have warned that the situation is so bad in  the Strip that people could starve to death. They put the unemployment rate in  Gaza as high as 60 percent.
A spokesman for the Israeli administration said the Palestinians' wages  had always been paid from taxes levied on the Palestinian population, but that  Israel had stopped taxing the Gaza Strip and Jericho since they became  autonomous at the start of this month.
Police Minister Moshe Shahal added his own warning. "The Palestinian  problem in Gaza is also our problem," he said. "We cannot just stand by and I  am sure we will find an answer."
In an interview Sunday with BBC World Service radio, Rabin said: "The real  problem is that the Palestinian police have not been paid."
"I don't see where the money will come from to sustain the 7,000  employees, most of whom are teachers, doctors, other public services. And I am  woried.
"The money has to come from donors who are committed to paying 2.4 billion  dollars in five years.
"But I am not aware that the machinery has been created between the donors  and the PLO on how the money will be channeled and accounted for," the prime  minister said.
