Gyula Horn, Hungary's leading candidate for prime  minister after Sunday's run-off elections gave the Socialist Party a landslide  victory, will be unable to sleep lying down for at least another three months.
Horn, a 61-year-old former foreign minister and one of the most popular  polticians in Hungary, suffered a broken vertebra in his neck, a broken wrist  and a consussion in an auto accident two days before first round of voting May  8.
He must now wear a seven-kilogram (15-pound) metal-and-plastic device  around his head and chest for three months to support the split vertebra.
Called a "halofixer" in medical jargon, the contraption looks like a  simple forehead band supported by four vertical metal rods leaning against the  patient's shoulders.
But it is not that simple, according to doctors.
Four screws on the titanium-alloy forehead supporter penetrate the  patient's skin and are fixed to the temple bones. The metal rods extend  beneath the shirt in a sheepskin-lined rigid plastic vest.
The device makes reclining impossible, which means that for three months,  Horn must sleep in a sitting position with his shoulders supported.
After his party's sweeping victory Sunday, he acknowledged that the device  bothered him and that he wanted to be rid of it as soon as possible.
As soon as Horn had left hospital barely a week after the accident to  carry on with his campaign, Hungarians dubbed him "Kobuki," after a popular  cartoon-figure spaceman from the future.
Following violent conservative attacks against him, Horn was also called  "Gyorgy Dozsa II" after a famous 16th-century peasant leader who was grilled  alive wearing a crown of thorns for leading an uprising against the nobility.
The press here, firmly in conservative hands, accused him during the  campaign of having resorted to physical violence while a member of a political  militia formed during Hungary's communist era to crush an anti-government  uprising in 1956.
Horn did not deny his membership in the militia but insisted that he had  never mistreated anyone.
Born to a family of workers in 1923, he studied accounting in the Soviet  Union from 1950 to 1954 and then worked for four years in the Hungarian  finance ministry.
He switched to the foreign ministry in 1959 and served as a diplomat in  Bulgaria and Yugoslavia from 1961 to 1969.
He joined the Communist Party in 1953 and in 1985 became secretary of state  for foreign affairs. He was named foreign minister in the government of Miklos  Nemeth in 1989, the same year he joined reform communists to establish the  Socialist Party.
