Crimean authorities said reinforcements were  deployed Sunday to guard key installations in the republic's capital,  Simferopol, as 29 Ukrainian armoured troop carriers reportedly entered the  city, the ITAR-TASS agency said.
In a dispatch monitored by the BBC, a Crimean presidential spokesman said  the interior ministry had reinforced security units around key government  buildings, including the main broadcasting centre and parliament, to counter  the perceived threat.
The agency said that according to reliable military sources, the armoured  vehicles, which had been brought by rail from Djankoi, in the north of the  peninsula, were now deployed at Simferopol station.
But a senior Ukrainian official denied that the carriers had been deployed.
Speaking on Ukrainian television, First Deputy Interior Minister Valentin  Nedrigailo said the situation in Crimea and Ukraine is "quite calm", the  agency said.
Earlier Sunday Crimean Interior Minister Valery Kuznetsov said that on  Saturday he had received reports that the Ukrainian national guard had been  ordered to take control of radio and television buildings, the Crimean central  bank, government and parliament buildings and the central telephone exchange  in Simferopol.
General Kuznetsov told the Interfax agency that Crimean forces had taken  preventive measures against possible strikes by Ukrainian troops, but added  there was no state of alert in Crimea and that the situation there was  "normal".
"Everything will remain calm if Ukraine does not ignite the situation,"  the minister said, adding that "the Crimean people have the right to choose  (their status) freely, but within the framework of Ukraine's territorial  integrity," Interfax said.
Crimea and Ukraine have been locked in a political crisis since Friday  when the Crimean parliament revived a constitution tantamount to a declaration  of independence from Kiev. Ukraine gave the territory 10 days to reverse the  move.
Talks between the two sides are scheduled for Tuesday in Moscow.
ITAR-TASS, quoting what it called reliable military sources, also said  Russian-commanded ground units of the Black Sea Fleet held exercises Sunday  near Sevastopol, the Crimean city where the fleet is based.
But a fleet spokesman told the agency the fleet's "combat units" were at  their usual locations.
Because of the volatile situation in Crimea, guard installations had been  reinforced, but there had been no manoeuvres or redeployment, the spokesman  added.
In another dispatch monitored by the BBC, ITAR-TASS said British Foreign  Secretary Douglas Hurd discussed the situation in Crimea Sunday in talks with  his Russian counterpart Andrei Kozyrev in the northern Russian city of  Murmansk.
The British side was interested in Moscow's reaction to Ukraine's appeal  to the UN Security Council to act over Crimea.
The agency quoted Russian sources as saying Moscow had "nothing against"  such an appeal and believed that a call for a political settlement coming from  the Council would be of use to all sides.
