US Secretary of State Warren Christopher on  Wednesday briefed President Hafez al-Assad on his talks with Israeli leaders  as the official press dismissed the idea of a phased return of the Golan  Heights.
Christopher was met on arrival from Israel by Syrian Foreign Minister  Faruq al-Shara and went directly to the presidential palace.
As the US envoy brought his peace mission back to Syria, the official  Ath-Thawra daily said: "Syria firmly and categorically rejects partial  solutions as well as a phased withdrawal from the Golan," which Israel has  proposed.
"We will not accept any Israeli presence on a single inch of the Golan,"  the newspaper said.
Israel has proposed a withdrawal over several years from the Heights,  which it captured in 1967 and annexed in 1981.
Meanwhile, the Washington Post, citing unnamed officials involved in the  mediation between Israel and Syria, said Damascus has shown a keen interest in  an Israeli offer for a three-stage pullout in exchange for peace.
Israel wanted international monitors and electronic devices installed on  the plateau, a demilitarised zone extending to neighbouring parts of Syria,  the Post said quoting unnamed officials involved in the mediation.
Syria's response to the proposals prompted Christopher's return to the  Syrian capital after his talks in Israel, the paper said.
Christopher said in Israel he would try "to find a common basis between  the parties" during his new talks with Syrian officials and that he had Prime  Minister Yithzak Rabin's "encouragement" to return to Damascus.
Rabin commented: "If the secretary of state has decided to return this  week to Syria to pursue the negotiations there there is perhaps a glimmer of  hope."
"We have to extract everything we can from this opportunity. I believe  Christopher will find a joint basis for dialogue," he added.
The government daily Tishrin called on the United States to play a full  partner role in the Middle East peace process and hoped that Christopher would  be successful in trying to "salvage the peace process."
Tishrin struck a note of optimism earlier this week by calling for a rapid  Israeli withdrawal from the Golan, urging a "reasonable and acceptable"  pullout timetable.
In Washington US National Security Advisor Anthony Lake said the United  States would seek to compensate Israel for the loss of the strategic plateau,  which commands access to Damascus and northern Israel.
"We will act decisively to bolster Israel's early warning capability and  ability to handle longer-range threats to compensate for strategic advantages  it may choose to give up for peace," Lake said.
He said Washington was ready to participate in security arrangements that  Syria and Israel negotiate, stressing that the United States "does not  underestimate the risks and costs involved in achieving Israeli-Syrian peace."
The Golan has been the main stumbling block in Syrian-Israeli negotiations  since the launch of the Madrid peace conference in October 1991.
Israel demands a prior Syria commitment for total peace before negotiating  the size of any withdrawal from the Golan. Syria demands that Israel first  commit itself to quit all the strategic plateau before talking about the type  of peace.
The United States is determined to bridge the gap between the arch rivals  now that it has secured a peace accord between Israel and the PLO for  launching autonomy in Gaza and the West Bank town of Jericho.
Peace talks between Syria and Israel have been suspended since the Hebron  massacre on February 25.
