Kamuzu Banda, whose three decades of iron-fisted  rule looked set to end Tuesday in Malawi's first multi-party polls, is  virtually the last of Africa's veteran post-colonial leaders.
Banda, who officially turned 89 on Saturday but is believed to be in his  nineties, stayed in the presidential race against four other candidates  despite brain surgery last October and a leg ailment during the campaign.
Banda, known as "Ngwazi" ("eagle"), cuts a distinctive figure, invariably  dressed in a three-piece suit, dark glasses and homburg hat and carrying a  trademark flywhisk. His official appearances are accompanied by dancing and  singing women from his Malawi Congress Party wearing dresses printed with his  portrait.
The frail president, among the last of a strongman generation still  including Zaire's Marshal Mobutu Sese Seko and Togo's General Gnassingbe  Eyadema, was an early champion of African nationalism.
He wrested Malawi from the British empire in 1964, but then for decades  became the only black African ruler to have full diplomatic relations with the  South Africa of the apartheid era.
A staunch ally of the West during the Cold War, Banda came under  increasing criticism in later years for human rights abuses by organisations  such as Amnesty International.
"I want my people to have three things: enough food to eat, decent clothes  to wear and a house that doesn't leak when it rains. That is what independence  means to me," Banda said repeatedly, but many Malawians never achieved those  modest standards of living.
Under Banda's paternalism, Malawi long remained a one-party state as other  African nations moved towards democracy.
The man who once described himself as "a black Scotsman" -- after a Church  of Scotland mission school education and studying medicine in Edinburgh --  takes a high moral tone in matters of behaviour and dress.
During his early years, long-hared male tourists often had their locks  shorn at the airport, and female visitors were until recently told that  showing their knees or wearing trousers was illegal.
Banda never officially married, but his companion, Cecilia Kadzamira,  holds the title "Official Hostess". She has controlled all access to him in  recent years, and her uncle, John Tembo, has been an influential aide.
Banda's rise to power began in rural Kasungu in central Malawi where he was  born. After primary schooling, 13-year-old Kamuzu ("seedling") set off on foot  in search of more learning. He worked as a hospital aide in Rhodesia, went to  the South African gold mines, then made his way to the United States and  qualified as a medical doctor in 1937.
After studies at Edinburgh University, he worked as a general practitioner  in England until the late 1950s. He returned home to then Nyasaland in 1958,  and was jailed for a year as the leading nationalist agitator.
Freed in April 1960, Banda continued his campaign against Britain's  Central African Federation of Nyasaland and Northern and Southern Rhodesia  (now Zambia and Zimbabwe).
In 1963, he became the first Prime Minister of Nyasaland and following  1964 elections in which his Malawi Congress Party (MCP) won all 50 seats, he  became independent Malawi's first president in 1966. He became Life President  in 1971.
Banda concentrated on developing agriculture and succeeded in making  Malawi self-sufficient in food and an exporter of the staple maize, as well as  tobacco and tea.
But critics charged that he favoured the large landowners, leaving too  many peasants in misery, pointing to statistics showing that rural Malawians,  who make up close to 90 percent of the population of eight million, have very  high rates of malnutrition and infant mortality.
Many large plantations are Banda's own. He personally owns the  octopus-like Press Holdings conglomerate which controls 30 percent of Malawi's  economic activity, according to World Bank estimates.
