Hong Kong banks raised their prime lending and  deposit rates on Friday, and a leading banker speculated that at least one  more increase was in the cards for later this year.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd., core unit of HSBC Holdings  plc and the dominant force in local banking, took the lead by increasing its  prime rate by 50 basis points to 7.25 percent.
Other banks promptly matched the announcement, made less than an hour  after the Hong Kong Association of Banks, which sets deposit rates, raised  overnight deposit and basic savings rates by 50 basis points.
The cartel also increased longer-term rates by 75 points, closing the gap  with interbank rates and money market rates which had been briskly rising in  recent weeks.
The changes had been widely expected in financial markets, following  Tuesday's increase in US Federal Reserve rates. The Hong Kong dollar is pegged  to its US counterpart.
"We have to stay very much in line with US rates," Paul Selway-Swift, the  association's chairman as well as Hongkong Bank's executive director, told  reporters.
Rates were last increased, the prime by 25 basis points, on March 25, and  Selway-Swift said further rises could well be in the cards if the US Federal  Reserves ups its rates yet again.
"I think that we will probably see an increase sometime in the second  half, maybe one more increase. But I'm guessing. That's not based on deep  analysis," he said.
Friday's changes by the banking cartel mean a Hong Kong passbook savings  account will pay 2.5 percent, one-week term deposits three percent, and  one-year deposits 5.25 percent.
The increase in loan rates would also bring a typical mortgage up to nine  percent, marking the first time in more than two years that a mortgage rate is  well above inflation, which now is running at about eight percent.
Negative interest rates have been one of the reasons cited for soaring  prices and rampant speculation in Hong Kong's overheating property market,  which has seen some districts become more expensive than Tokyo.
Selway-Swith doubted the deposit rate increases would lead to upward  pressure on the Hong Kong dollar, which has been hovering around 7.73 per US  dollar for several weeks.
