Northern troops battered southern defences at  the key air base of Al-Anad Thursday with fighting going on over the dead  bodies of fallen soldiers, wounded witnesses said.
Lorries filled with ammunition and battle-weary men were seen by an AFP  correspondent retracing steps down from the base over which hung a plume of  thick, black smoke.
A southern soldier said: "It's a tactical withdrawal.
Others, some of them civilian volunteers, accused the northern troops of  "being drugged up on heroin."
And they accused Iraqi, Sudanese and Erithrean troops of fighting with  northern forces loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh.
"The fundamentalists are with them, the West is with us," said one.
On the roadside raw recruits from southern forces loyal to Saleh's rival  Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid were being shown how to use a gun as night  began to fall.
Further down two 130 mm cannons on the backs of lorries were turned  towards Aden, while Katyusha rockets were being fired from hills held by  southern forces onto northern positions.
Intense fighting made it impossible to approach closer than two kilometres  (1.2 miles) to the base, which is 60 kilometres (36 miles) north of Aden.
For the first time in the civil war, now into its third week, the hospital  at nearby Lahij 20 kilometres (12 miles) further south, seemed to be  overflowing with casualties who had even been placed in the entrance hall.
But hospital staff refused to give any details, saying only that four  northern troops were being treated there.
Humanitarian organisations said about 40 wounded had been admitted to the  hospital on Thursday, some of them seriously injured. Five had been later  transferred to Aden.
A northern military spokesman said late Thursday in Sanaa that a southern  plane had been brought down over the base and the army had seized 62 T-55  tanks "several kilometres south of the base."
On Wednesday the north said the base was completely under its control.
Meanwhile, the Gulf press agency GNA, based in Manama, said that 160  employees of the US company Hunt Oil arrived in Bahrain late Thursday from  Sanaa.
He said the employees, mainly Americans, Britons, Indians, Yemenis and  Palestinians, arrived on board a Boeing 727 belonging to Yemenia air company.
The decision to evacuate more of its staff had been taken "because of the  continued fighting in Yemen," the agency said.
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak meanwhile called on Saleh to cease all  fighting immediately for the Moslem festival of Al-Adha.
