Efforts to stop the spread of nuclear weapons are  emerging as the first element of a proposed new relationship between NATO and  Russia, German Defence Minister Volker Ruehe said here Tuesday.
He was speaking during a meeting of defence ministers from countries of  the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO).
Ruehe reported an emerging consensus that nuclear non-proliferation, until  now dealt with on a bilateral basis between Washington and Moscow, should be  dealt with on a wider basis between Russia and NATO.
Russia is seeking a relationship with NATO going beyond the  partnership-for-peace programme of nuclear cooperation between the western  alliance and countries of the former Soviet bloc.
Ruehe said that the NATO ministers wanted a dialogue with Russia on how to  control the spread of nuclear weapons, and that this was the first issue  proposed by the ministers as a candidate for such a dialogue.
But he said that US Defence Secretary William Perry had opposed a German  proposal that the dialogue should be expanded to nuclear issues in general.
Other issues under consideration for such cooperation are the conflict in  Bosnia-Hercegovina, peace-keeping in the former Soviet republics, and helping  Russia convert its arms factories to civilian use.
Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev was due to join the meeting later  to present Moscow's terms for joining the partnership-for-peace programme of  military cooperation between NATO and countries of the former Soviet bloc.
NATO is pressing Russia to join the programme.
But Russian President Boris Yeltsin has indicated that Russia wants a  special political relationship with NATO, enshrined in writing, as the price  for signing on to the military partnership.
Ruehe said there was a general agreement at the meeting that NATO needed  to meet the Russians halfway.
"If other countries have the possibility to join NATO as real members and  Russia cannot, we must give Moscow something else," he said.
Several members of the partnership, particularly Poland and Hungary, have  said they want to join NATO eventually as full members.
Ruehe conceded that Russia could not be given any special status in the  partnership-for-peace programme.
"There cannot be a formal protocol linked to the partnership, but outside  it nothing is excluded," he said.
However, the United States has ruled out any formal commitment to special  NATO-Moscow links, although US officials say they favour a gradual  evolution  in such links.
