Southern Yemeni forces are  bombarding northern troops in the blinding heat of this sandswept plain in a  bid to block their advance on Aden.
An AFP reporter who visited the front line about 25 kilometres (15 miles)  east of Aden on Monday saw artillery shells crashing near a line of northern  Soviet-built, T-55 tanks.
Several shells hissed overhead and landed behind the northern positions.
The troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh refrained from opening up  an artillery barrage, but several Katyusha rockets roared toward the southern  lines around Aden.
Mountains dominating the key southern port city loomed in the distance.
Later Captain Abdurahman Rubai told reporters in Zinjibar, 55 kilometres  (33 miles) east of Aden, that the southern forces opened up intermittent  artillery fire daily, but mostly it was "random and ineffective."
He said the northern troops did not fire back with the same intensity in  order to avoid giving away their positions.
Reporters spoke to tank crews of the 56th armoured battalion supporting  the powerful Al-Amaliqa (giants) mechanised infantry brigade based in Zinjibar.
The soldiers said the forces of southern leader Ali Salem al-Baid tried to  outflank them Sunday, supported by a naval barrage.
But their intelligence was poor and they were driven off. Some 13 southern  troops were captured, "mostly young boys," the soldiers said.
The tank crews said they had been in the area for one month, but had only  occupied their present positions for 10 days.
They said they could move forward but were "awaiting orders."
Abdu Yahya, 32, said Aden was within artillery range, but the northern  troops had not been instructed to open fire at the city itself.
Northern troops have been closing in on Aden since the civil war erupted  on May 5.
But they have come under heavy shelling since capturing the vast Al-Anad  military base 60 kilometres (36 miles) north of Aden recently.
Captain Rubai said southern air force jets flew sorties several times a  day, but their attacks were largely ineffective.
They were still using the airstrip at Aden, despite heavy shelling by  northern troops.
Rubai said fighter-jets flew from Rayyan, an airbase near Mukalla in  eastern Yemen, carrying full ordnance and using Aden air base as a quick  refuelling stop before heading back east.
He said the southern navy had been "neutralised" after another warship was  sunk by northern forces Saturday.
The northern troops were dug in on an expanse of sand by the gulf of Aden,  not far from Jaar, a deserted ghost town where dogs scavenge among piles of  rubbish. Nearby electricity pylons stretching along the coast from Aden now  stand derelict, their snapped cables littering the sand.
