After a series of gun shots, a raucous  cough rents the night air, a child cries and the heavy mountain mist soaks the  blankets as hundreds of orphans from Rwanda's ethnic slaughter sleep fitfully  in the giant refugee camp here.
Violence racks the camp, where, almost lost among the 30,000 refugees, 600  orphans snuggle together in a huge convent dormitory, just one part of the  huge religious complex close to the government stronghold of Gitarama.
The complex also houses the Kabgayi bishop's palace, two seminaries, the  nun's hospital, a college, primary schools, a training centre and a nurses'  school.
Some orphans arrived in groups, others were brought in by adults and  others came on their own. The youngest are babies, the eldest no more than 12  years old.
The hospital takes in truckloads of injured soldiers from the war front,  where the Hutu army is battling Tutsi-led rebels of the Rwanda Patriotic Front.
The schools and colleges were transformed into refugee camps soon after  the conflict erupted nearly two months ago. The nurses' school has become a  hospital run by the International Committee of the Red Cross.
Around 30,000 displaced people are crammed into Kabgayi, with 14,000  squashed into the Kaggwa training centre.
Although Hutu soldiers patrol the camp, three-quarters of the refugees are  from the Tutsi minority, the main victims of the ethnic slaughter.
Within the camp, the atmosphere is sinister. From behind a barbed wire  fence, a young Tutsi man watches the road outside, standing in the foul  smelling mud which covers the camp.
He is afraid to talk. "If the soldiers see us, they will kill us," he  says. Despite this, he wants to remain in the camp. "To leave is too risky. We  prefer to stay here," he says.
A nun says she sees every day the bodies of refugees killed by "men in  uniform and men in civilian clothing."
The first refugees arrived here fleeing the fighting in Kigali, the  following people were fleeing massacres in the hills, she says. They are  coming from everywhere and are all terrified.
The luckiest of them have tents or huts. The others sleep outside. They  wake up early when shots ring out. No-one knows who has fired. Then they go  back to sleep.
In the morning, while some try to find out how many people were killed  overnight, others simply wash their faces in the scarce water available and  join the queue for food. Another day has started.
Food is scarce. Refugees receive a ration of maize each three days, while  those with money can buy tomatoes, avocados and onions at the market stalls  set up on the other side of the barbed wire fences.
The Tutsis and Hutu members of the opposition were the first victims of  the mainly inter-ethnic massacres that broke out in early April.
But the Rwandan Patriotic Front has also been accused of massacring Hutus.
The religious authorities of Kabgayi decided to work with the district and  government authorities.
"We asked for soldiers to come here to assure security," says the  archbishop of Kigali, Vincent Nsengiyumva, temporarily moved to Kabgayi.
For him, the RPF, which know holds over two-third of the territory, is the  aggressor and will have to put down its arms and talk, however improbable that  might seem.
But Nsengiyumva also confirmed that a dozen Rwandan priests and nuns were  taken from the camp by armed men Tuesday and have not been seen since.
According to rumours in the camp, they had had contacts with the RPF -- a  death sentence in government-held territory.
