Enzo Scifo is the first to admit a drop of Chablis  white wine revived his flagging career.
The midfield maestro with the Sicilian origins had been effectively run  out of Belgium by jealous team-mates but found it just as hard in Italy.
Claret turned out to be a poor year for him, too, when he went to  Bordeaux. But Burgundy offered new horizons.
"I seemed to be getting deeper and deeper into a trough but Auxerre pulled  me out," said the 28-year-old.
Guy Roux, the Auxerre manager who cultivated the likes of Eric Cantona and  Basile Boli at his youth training centre, pointed out where Scifo was going  wrong.
"Perhaps I'd always liked to be a bit too clever. I now get just as much  satisfaction out of doing the simple things well."
Scifo made his first team debut for Anderlecht, Belgium's most famous  club, when he was 17 but the older, Flemish players took an instant dislike to  this gifted youngester.
Current national coach Paul Van Himst, then in charge at Anderlecht,  recalled him in 1984 and the 18-year-old was one of the few Belgians to come  out of the 1984 European championships with his reputation intact.
Belgium and Scifo had a good World Cup in Mexico in 1986 when they reached  the semi-finals, losing to Diego Maradona's Argentina, but he was still  unsettled at Anderlecht.
He moved to Inter Milan only to run into the same problems - a bunch of  old pros unwilling to let in a newcomer.
He was loaned out to Bordeaux but the French club had just been knocked  off its perch by Olympique Marseille and was going through its final agonies.  Bordeaux were later demoted for financial irregularities but Roux threw Scifo  a lifeline.
"I can't say I was too happy to go to such a little club but I now know it  was the best move in my career," Scifo said.
He had an outstanding World Cup in Italy in 1990 and Inter Milan, who had  retained him on their books, decided to make a profit by selling him to Torino.
But Torino were another club bogged down in a financial quagmire and he  was part of the clear-out the following season.
Monaco offered a berth and, after an injury-plagued start to the season,  he led Prince Rainier's side to the European Cup semi-finals.
Now no-one in Belgium tries to tell Scifo to shut up. He's the one with  the captain's armband.
