The agreement by the United States and Vietnam  to open liaison offices marks a new step in relations between the two  countries, but there is still a long way to go before they can restore full  diplomatic ties.
"There remain many technical and substantive issues that will have to be  resolved between our two governments before full normalization of relations  can be realized," Assistant Secretary of State for Asia-Pacific affairs  Winston Lord said in a letter to Vietnam last Friday.
He cited in particular the need for continued progress in resolving the  cases of 2,234 US troops still reported as missing in action (MIA) from the  Vietnam War.
The setting up of a US liaison office in Hanoi "should facilitate progress  on all issues of concern, particularly POW/MIA accounting," State Department  spokesman Michael McCurry said Thursday.
President Bill Clinton had announced when he lifted the decades-old US  trade embargo against Vietnam in February that he wanted to set up a liaison  office in Hanoi.
Thursday's announcement came after the two sides agreed on the legal  framework for establishing such an office, including the return of buildings  seized after the fall of Saigon in April 1975.
"A date for the opening of the liaison offices will be set following  implementation of Vietnam's agreement to return US diplomatic property," the  State Department statement said.
Vietnam also agreed to promptly inform Washington of the arrest of any US  passport holder, regardless of where he was born, and allow US consular access  to the detained person.
But opening a liaison office will not resolve all outstanding problems  between the two sides by any means.
There are still many Vietnam veterans and Congressmen here who accept that  relations should improve as Hanoi has shown markedly increased willingness to  cooperate on the MIA issue in the past year or so, but who argue strongly that  full diplomatic ties cannot come until all MIA cases have been accounted for.
And the US administration has made it clear that the MIA/POW issue is not  their only cause for concern.
Clinton raised the question of Vietnam's human rights record when he  lifted the trade embargo in February, and the two sides have held at least one  round of talks since then, with further talks planned but no date set,  according to officials here.
There is also the outstanding question of assets frozen by both sides at  the end of the war.
US companies are claiming some 230 million dollars seized by the  Vietnamese, while Hanoi is demanding the return of 290 million dollars  deposited by the former South Vietnam government in US bank accounts.
Some 60 US firms have opened offices in Vietnam, investing more than 20  million US dollars since February.
Occidental Petroleum said Thursday that the Vietnamese government had  approved its application to drill for oil off Vietnam, the first such  authorisation since the US embargo was lifted.
