Australia's economy fell further into the red in  April, official data said Monday, as the value of exports slackened and the  cost of paying for overseas debt soared.
The seasonally adjusted current account deficit rose 18 percent to 1.632  billion Australian dollars (1.2 billion US) from a revised 1.381 billion  dollars the month before, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said.
"Imports are still at quite a high level, which is sympathetic with the  growth in the economy that we know about," said Grant Bailey, chief economist  at Citibank Australia.
"These figures also expose our Achilles heel -- exports have to stay high  every month to offset those imports."
Australia's merchandise trade deficit slumped 51 percent to a seasonally  adjusted 286 million dollars in April as exports fell five percent and imports  slipped three percent.
Ivana Bottini, chief economist at Societe Generale Australia, said  interest payments on overseas debt boosted the net income deficit 18 percent  to 1.243 billion dollars.
"It is increasing because we have got a stock of debt which is quite high  and rising -- a lot of that is in US dollars and US interest rates are going  up, so the cost of financing is going up," Bottini said.
The deficit would continue to rise because the Australian government had  failed to direct resources away from consumption and expenditure towards  business investment and productive capacity, Bottini said.
"We are getting an economic recovery led by domestic demand that is being  financed by offshore borrowing -- you cannot do that forever."
Economists said the current account deficit was in line with expectations  and markets were not expected to react.
Australia's imports of capital goods fell slightly in April 1.267 billion  dollars from 1.449 billion dollars but analysts said one month's data were  insufficient to suggest a slackening of business investment in overseas  machinery and equipment.
In raw figures, Australia's current account deficit narrowed to 1.091  billion dollars in April from a revised 1.345 billion dollars in March.
