Cambodian peace talks in North Korea looked set  for an uphill battle Friday despite Khmer Rouge support for a ceasefire.
One major obstacle was an accusation by the Khmer Rouge that the  government was undermining the peace process by seeking foreign military help.
"The military aid from America and the other western countries is an act  aimed at sabotaging King (Norodom) Sihanouk's round-table meeting," a  statement from the radical faction said.
King Sihanouk was to host the talks between co-premiers Prince Norodom  Ranariddh and Hun Sen, parliament chairman Chea Sim and Khmer Rouge nominal  leader Khieu Samphan at his residence in Pyongyang.
The Khmer Rouge statement said the recent visit here of a "US high  official" focused on providing Cambodia with military aid to fight the  guerrillas and was "undisputed proof of American interference in Cambodia."
The radical faction was referring to a meeting here two days ago between  US Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defence Kent Weidemann and Cambodian Defence  Minister Tea Banh.
Tea Banh said the two had discussed the military situation in Cambodia,  but would not say if the talks had touched on the question of military  assistance.
The Pyongyang talks are to focus on a peace plan proposed by King Sihanouk  that would give government posts to the Khmer Rouge in return for opening up  their zones and merging their rebel forces with the Royal Cambodian Army.
The Khmer Rouge have expressed support for a ceasefire proposed by the  king and the setting up of a joint ceasefire commission, but added the move  would depend on the participation of international observers.
In a statement released Thursday, Khmer Rouge nominal leader Khieu Samphan  asked that ceasefire monitors be chosen from among five of 10 suggested  countries.
The countries mentioned were Austria, Brunei, Egypt, Finland, Fiji, Papua  New Guinea, Sri Lanka, Nepal, the Philippines and Switzerland.
A foreign military expert here said the Khmer Rouge demand was a ploy to  delay implementation of a ceasefire, as it would be impossible to get  observers in place by the government's proposed June 15 starting date.
Most of the countries suggested by the rebels also had little experience  in Cambodia, he added.
The guerrilla faction's statement was vague on the question of when a  ceasefire would come into effect, saying that it could only occur "when all  various conditions for ensuring its genuine and definitive implementation are  in place."
It said the role of the observers -- the numbers of whom would be decided  by all Cambodian parties -- would be to prevent weapons, ammunition and  unspecified foreign forces from entering Cambodia.
Meanwhile, the Khmer Rouge had yet to respond to government claims  Thursday that more than 200 guerrillas were killed in fighting near Treng in  northwest Cambodia as rebels fled a government advance.
Most of the dead were killed by artillery fire but some 50 others had  bullet wounds in the back of the head, according to Battambang provincial  deputy governor Serey Kosal, who said the 50 rebels were executed by their  commanders for retreating.
Defence Minister Tea Banh said he had received reports that some 250  guerrillas had been killed in fighting Wednesday, as the rebels were pushed  back to the Khmer Rouge capital at Pailin.
Sources close to the defence ministry said Friday that only 34 bodies had  been found.
Fourteen were found on Tuesday, and 20 found in a pit on Wednesday, they  said.
