Japan's five biggest shipping companies announced  Friday dismal earnings and revenue figures for the year to March, forecasting  either flat performances or modest improvements at best in the coming year.
Two of the companies, Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. and the long-troubled  Showa Line Ltd., suffered pre-tax losses in the latest year. The three  remaining companies -- Nippon Yusen KK (NYK), Mitsui OSK Lines Ltd. and Navix  Line Ltd. -- saw pre-tax earnings more than halved.
Both NYK and Mitsui projected a modest recovery in profits this year while  Kawasaki Kisen said it expected to return to the black. But Navix forecast  zero earnings and Showa said it expected to remain in the red.
"In the coming fiscal year, the Japanese shipping market is likely to face  persistent difficulties, including anxiety about further rises in the value of  the yen and delay in economic recovery," NYK said.
Japan's top shipping company, an affiliate of the Mitsubishi group, said  its profit tumbled 56.2 percent from a year earlier to 6.03 billion yen (59  million dollars). Revenue dropped 7.7 percent to 531 billion yen in the same  period, depressed by reduced revenue from its liner and tramp operations.
"Freight volumes in container services increased slightly on North  American, European and other routes, thanks to the recovery of the US economy  and plentiful exports from the Asian region," the company said.
"However, the company's business results remained sluggish due to drops in  freight levels caused by fierce competition and the high value of the yen."
NYK forecast a modest increase in profit to seven billion yen for the  current year with revenue edging up towards 540 billion yen.
Mitsui's pre-tax profit tumbled 79 percent from a year earlier to 1.6  billion yen. The company also announced a net loss of 2.5 billion yen,  reversing a net profit of 5.2 billion yen a year earlier. Revenue was down 9.1  percent at 441 billion yen and the company omitted its dividend payment.
But like its bigger rival, Mitsui also forecast slightly better earnings of  two billion yen for this year on increased revenue of 450 billion yen.
"The severe business environment is expected to continue," Mitsui said.  "The impact of the yen's appreciation on earnings is of concern. In addition,  it is difficult to expect rapid economic recovery in Japan."
Kawasaki Kisen, also known as K-Line, announced a pre-tax loss of 588  million yen, reversing a profit of 1.2 billion yen a year earlier. Revenue  declined 10 percent to 336 billion yen, and was depressed in all sectors.
But the company expects to return to the black this year with a pre-tax  profit of one billion yen on revenue of 340 billion yen.
Navix saw its earnings plunge 71.9 percent to only 84 million yen in the  same period on reduced revenue of 140 billion yen, down 9.1 percent. For the  coming year, zero profit was forecast with revenue flat at 140 billion yen.
Showa meanwhile suffered a loss of 2.4 billion yen, reversing a profit of  519 million yen a year earlier. Revenue was down 0.1 percent at 77 billion  yen. The company forecast an even bigger loss of 2.5 billion yen for the  coming year with revenues declining further to about 76 billion yen.
