Hungarian election results on Monday demonstrated  further gains by former communists who were ousted from power by pro-reform  governments five years ago with the collapse of the Berlin Wall.
Herewith the situation in the countries of former Eastern Europe:
BULGARIA: Former communists in the Bulgarian Socialist Party, with 106  deputies out of 240, make up the main parliamentary support of the centrist  government of Luben Berov. The ex-communists are ahead in opinion polls with  up to 27 percent of voting intentions, compared to some 23 percent for the  anti-communist Union of Democratic Forces, which won 110 seats in the last  elections of October 1991.
CZECH REPUBLIC: Ex-communists are out of favour in the  conservative-governed country. Ultra-liberal Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus is  ahead in opinion polls, with 29 percent in favour compared to the communists  who are in fourth place.
HUNGARY: After a second round of voting Sunday, the former communists of  the Socialist Party led by Gyula Horn garnered an absolute majority in the  386-member legislature, capturing 209 seats -- a six-fold increase on its  score in 1990 elections. The liberal Alliance of Free Democracts, which took  70 seats, came second and is a possible coalition partner.
POLAND: Coalition of ex-communists and Peasants Party in power following  the left's electoral victory in September 1993. Opinion polls regularly show  the leader of the ex-communists, Alexander Kwasniewski, ahead of President  Lech Walesa and he could be a strong challenger in next year's presidential  poll.
ROMANIA: Reformed communists under President Ion Iliescu and his Romanian  Social Democracy Party have been in power since 1990. His popularity is  dipping in opinion polls but his position does not appear threatened.
SLOVAKIA: Ex-communists in the SDL of Peter Weiss are in the coalition  government with centrists and Christian Democrats. In opinion polls, the SDL  is the second most popular party with 13 percent favourable ratings, after the  populist HZDS (32 percent) which has many ex-communists in its ranks.
