Little chance remains for the survival of the EKO  Stahl steelworks at Eisenhuettenstadt in eastern Germany after Italy's Riva  group decision not to buy it, Economy Minister Guenter Rexrodt said Tuesday.
The government has hoped to save jobs at the steelworks on the Polish  border by selling it, rather than see the virtual near-death of the town where  some 50,000 people are directly or indirectly dependent on the plant.
On Monday government spokesman Dieter Vogel said the government would  continue to do all it could to find a private buyer for the works.
But speaking on state radio Tuesday, Rexrodt said he doubted it would be  possible to create a hot-rolling facility at Eisenhuettenstadt. Hot-rolled  steel capacity is already considered to be in surplus in Europe.
Industry specialists believe EKO would have no chance of survival at all  if it stuck with its present cold-rolling mill, however.
The opposition Social Democrat party's main leader in eastern Germany,  Wolfgang Thierse, meanwhile called Tuesday for forms of public ownership to be  considered, which the government of Chancellor Helmut Kohl is against.
The European Commission in Brussels would also object to public subsidy.
The policy of the Kohl government has been to privatise publicly-owned  industry in the formerly communist eastern part of the country following  German reunification, with a consequent loss of jobs.
But it faces electoral disaster in the east as a result. The case of EKO  Stahl at Eisenhuettenstadt (Steelworkstown), which was the pride of the  communist regime, risks being a negative symbol of today's policies.
Since the Riva group dropped out Friday, two former German takeover  candidates have re-emerged for EKO Stahl -- the Thyssen group and a  Hamburg-based consortium.
However Thyssen has ruled out building a new hot-rolling facility, which  for the plant's workers' representatives does not constitute a solution.  Resistance to Riva's plans by the powerful IG Metall union led to that firm  pulling out.
