Central American leaders will use a summit  attended by US Vice President Al Gore to seek a phased incorporation into the  North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), officials said Monday.
Costa Rican Foreign Minister Fernando Naranjo said the seven Central  American leaders due to attend would urge Gore Tuesday to allow Central  American producers the same access to US markets that Mexico has, as a first  step toward full inclusion in NAFTA's mega-market.
NAFTA, which took effect January 1, groups the United States, Mexico and  Canada in a free trade zone of 360 million consumers.
Naranjo said countries on the Central American isthmus were hoping to make  up for economic losses suffered due to structural adjustment programs  implemented in the past decade to cut government budget deficits.
These reforms have hurt the poorest of the poor on the isthmus, with a  total population of 29 million people.
In the meeting with Gore, the presidents of Nicaragua, Costa Rica,  Guatemala, El Salvador, Panama and Honduras, as well as Belize's premier, will  hammer out proposals to be presented at a June Ibero-American summit set for  Cartagena, Colombia, and a summit of leaders from throughout the Americas  hosted by US President Bill Clinton in Miami in December.
Gore arrives at 10:45 a.m. (1500 GMT) and the 90-minute meeting begins at  12:00 noon (1700 GMT). The US vice president has become Clinton's point man  for Latin America, travelling to Argentina, Bolivia and Brazil two months ago.
Honduran President Carlos Roberto Reina told reporters here Monday that he  was hoping the meeting would set the bases for new relations between Central  America and the United States.
During the Cold War, ties tended to be focussed on the US fear of a  communist penetration of Central America, and US military and economic aid  flowed in to stave off Soviet influence.
"We have emerged from the Cold War, when the world's strategic  battleground was Central America," Reina said. "This world has disappeared and  now what we must do is raise the living standards of our people."
During the 1980s, the US government sent 15 billion dollars in military  and economic aid to Central America, according to the Congressional Research  Service in Washington.
One of the biggest recipients was El Salvador, where leftist guerrillas  and the government fought for nearly 12 years before they made peace in 1992.
But Reina also acknowledged that the end of the east-west conflict would  probably mean reduced US assistance to Central American as a whole.
In addition to Gore and Reina, participants in the summit will be  Presidents Jose Maria Figueres (Costa Rica), Guillermo Endara (Panama), Ramiro  de Leon Carpio (Guatemala), Violeta Chamorro (Nicaragua), Alfredo Cristiani  (El Salvador) as well as Belizean Prime Minister Manuel Esquivel.
