Southern Yemenis have stockpiled enough food  and other supplies in their Aden stronghold for at least one year of fighting  against their northern rivals, officials here said.
"Goods are flowing in in large quantities. So far, we have got enough  supplies for one year at least," Aden port operations chief Captain Abker  Hassan Dabla told AFP.
He said an average of two ships were being unloaded every day in the port.
Warehouses in the port could be seen full of basic commodities such as  rice and sugar, but also raw material like cotton, to keep Aden's industry  going.
At a nearby dock, the British-flagged ship Acoriano was unloading tobacco  containers for the local cigarette factory.
The southern forces led by Ali Salem al-Baid have taken military measures  to prevent the northern forces of President Ali Abdallah Saleh from holding up  navigation to the city.
A patrol boat equipped with missile launchers and heavy guns could be seen  off the coast. The southerners have also kept an edge in the sky, enabling  them to monitor the sea.
"Navigation to and from Aden is safe," southern trading department  official Hanash Massud Qahtan insisted.
Baid declared a southern independent state, the Yemen Democratic Republic,  on May 21. The north has since warned foreign ships and planes to avoid  southern "war zones."
Aden's market is well supplied, but prices have gone up 10 to 15 percent  since the outbreak of civil war on May 5, traders said.
The rise is in line with the dollar exchange rate on the black market,  which went up to 80 rials, from 60 before the war, compared to the official  rate of one dollar buying 12 rials.
Qahtan said port activity at Aden -- once a major outpost of the British  Empire -- suffered under the unified Yemen as ships were instructed to use the  northern port of Hodeida instead.
Authorities of the new state, which has not been recognized  internationally, are in contact with shipowners to increase Aden's sea  traffic, despite higher insurance premiums because of the war, he added.
The civil war has erupted four years after the former conservative North  and Marxist South merged to form a united Yemen.
Deputy Prime Minister Abdelwahab al-Ansi, a northerner, said in Sanaa on  Wednesday that "if it is necessary to go into Aden we will do so," although  Sanaa wanted to avoid high casualties.
But the government had decided not to shell the city of 500,000 residents,   and if it was necessary to enter Aden "it will be a very limited operation,"  he said.
Saleh's forces could have attacked strategic targets in the city, such as  the television station and port facilities, but decided not to in order to  avoid civilian casualties, he explained.
However missiles have hit Aden, with the north saying the target was the  airport, which southern jets use as a launchpad for attacks on northern troops  moving in on the city.
The airport is closed to civilian traffic, leaving only the sea route out  of Aden.
