Yzaga's hopes quickly disappeared on the blustery but sun-drenched  centre-court against the competent but unspectacular Larsson.
The 6ft 3in (1m92) Larsson, who had defeated ninth-seeded fellow-giant  Todd Martin in the third-round, quickly took control against the 5ft 7in  Peruvian whose touch tennis had so tormented Chang.
"I felt flat when I got on court," admitted the disappointed South  American after winning just seven games and few admirers among the  long-suffering fans in a dour two-hour encounter of unforced errors and  uninspired tennis.
Larsson's opponent for a place in the semi-final will be 19-year-old  Dreekman -- the latest player to emerge from the shadow of compatriots Stich,  Boris Becker and Marc Goellner since reaching the final at Sun City earlier  this year.
Playing on the new Stadium 'A' show-court, Dreekmann survived a nervous  start, mixed up his game with intelligent changes of pace and clever drop  shots, and beat Krickstein 6-4, 6-4, 6-4.
The already paper-thin programme was in virtual tatters by the  mid-afternoon and organisers desperately chased around for replacement doubles  matches to appease the 16,000 paying customers.
Earlier Martina Navratilova had done her best to slow things down.
Making her farewell appearance she was involved in a hard-fought  two-and-a-half hour women's doubles match in what was probably her last  centre-court appearance.
Navratilova, 37 and retiring at the end of the year, joined forces with  Manon Bollegraf of the Netherlands in a bid to add another victory to her  already formidable record of seven women's doubles triumphs at the event.
But the Czech-born American and her Dutch partner, seeded fourth, had  their path into the quarter-finals barred by third-round French opponents  Julie Halard and Nathalie Tauziat.
The French players came back after a shaky start to score a 2-6, 7-6  (7/3), 6-3 win.
Navratilova, who is fifth-seeded in the mixed-doubles with Australian Mark  Woodforde, has won two singles, seven doubles and two mixed doubles titles at  the French Open since she made her debut here in 1973.
The winner of a record 167 singles title, the former world number-one was  beaten in the first round of the singles last week.
kd94
