A special UN envoy called off a planned trip to  Kigali on Monday despite a shaky truce in Rwanda's embattled capital, saying  neither rebels nor government forces could guarantee his security.
The envoy, Iqbal Riza, was to have travelled to Kigali by road Monday to  continue discussions to pave the way for the return of UN peacekeepers to  staunch Rwanda's six-week-old ethnic bloodbath.
But after talks with leaders of the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) at  their headquarters in Mulindi, northern Rwanda, Riza cancelled the trip and  returned to Uganda, a UN spokesman said.
"We did not obtain explicit guarantees from the two parties about his  safety," spokesman Abdul Kabia said by telephone from Kigali, adding that Riza  would try to fly into Kigali from the Kenyan capital Nairobi on Tuesday.
Riza had planned to visit the rump government Tuesday in Gitarama, 40  kilometres (25 miles) to southwest of the capital, where the government fled  last month, Kabia said.
Fighting tailed off in the capital despite sporadic gunfire after a night  of heavy shelling and the capture of Kigali airport and a key army barracks  Sunday by rebels in their biggest victory in six weeks of fighting.
Kabia said both sides had agreed to a two-day truce to allow Riza to hold  talks with rebel and government leaders on plans to deploy 5,500 UN troops to  end the slaughter in which up to half a million people have been butchered.
RPF secretary-general Theogene Rudasingwa, however, said the rebels had  not agreed to a full truce, but would hold fire wherever possible to allow  Riza to travel safely.
"There are occasional exchanges of fire, but there's a lot less fighting  than usual and so we consider that the truce is being respected," Kabia told  AFP.
Riza arrived in the rebels' northern stronghold from Uganda Monday  morning, but details of his talks with RPF political and military leaders were  not disclosed, Kabia said.
The cancellation of Riza's trip to Kigali cast further doubt on the  planned UN peacekeeping mission in Rwanda, diplomats said.
The UN had already been encountering difficulty in persuading member-states  to contribute troops for another African peacekeeping venture after UN and US  forces failed to end anarchy in Somalia despite losing more than 80 soldiers  in combat, the diplomats said.
Rudasingwa told a news conference in Nairobi that the RPF had agreed to a  UN request to take control of Kigali airport, a vital lifeline for landlocked  Rwanda.
The UN wants to establish a neutral zone there to land the peacekeepers  and desperately needed food and medicine.
Fighting has prevented relief planes from landing in Kigali for four days.
One of two UN flights was again cancelled Monday despite the lull in  fighting because of fears that government forces might fire on aircraft, UN  military sources said.
The Security Council authorised the deployment of 5,500 blue helmets after  the UN came under heavy criticism for withdrawing all but 400 of its 2,500  ceasefire monitors last month.
They will not intervene in fighting between rebel and government forces,  but will try to end the killings of civilians and will escort relief convoys  to some two million displaced people.
Up to half a million people, mostly members of the minority Tutsi tribe  that dominates the RPF, and Hutu opposition supporters, have been massacred,  many by extremist Hutu militias.
RPF fighters are meanwhile trudging through swamps in a steady advance  towards the government seat at Gitarama.
The capture of Kanombe barracks, Kigali's most heavily fortified army  position, on Sunday was the RPF's biggest achievement since the April 6 death  of president Juvenal Habyarimana rekindled the three-year civil war, UN  military sources said.
"The RPF are now concentrating on flushing out the presidential guard from  Kigali, and it looks as if the army may be forced to retreat from the capital  within a week if the RPF manages to take Camp Kigali" another big army base, a  senior UN military official told AFP.
