South Africa's new defence minister, former  guerrilla leader Joe Modise, announced Tuesday that he would maintain General  Georg Meiring as chief the National Defence Force (SANDF).
Meiring, 54, and Modise, 65, had once been enemies, the former as a career  military man, the latter as head of the African National Congress' guerrilla  army, Umkhonto we Sizwe -- Spear of the Nation, or MK for short.
"I have no doubt in my mind that our cooperation will be constructive and  sound," Modise told a press conference here, adding that he had appointed  Meiring for a five-year term.
"It is my sincere wish that under the command of General Meiring, the  SANDF will do its best toward reconciliation, upliftment, prosperity and peace  in our country," Modise said.
He said the size of the defence force was expected to increase by some  30,000 men to more than 100,000 as soldiers from the MK and other armed forces  are integrated into the national army.
But a "rationalization" process would follow, aiming to end up with a  standing force of 70,000 men, Modise said.
The minister would not be drawn into commenting on the fate of other  ranking generals in the country's armed forces, nor would he say when he  expected the first black general to be named.
Officers from the British armed forces would act as independent observers  to monitor the integration and rationalization processes, he said, pledging to  maintain the standards of the South African army, considered to be by and  large the best in Africa.
"On Gen. Meiring's shoulders rests the task to build a legitimate,  credible and fully representative National Defence Force that will enjoy the  full support and cooperation of all the people in South Africa," Modise said.
He added: "Our Defence Force has to be a balanced, modern and  technologically advanced military force with internationally accepted  professional norms and standards, capable of executing its functions in terms  of the constitution."
He said the army would also play a major role in the Reconstruction and  Development Program -- backbone of the ANC's social and economic platform --  by creating jobs and through Armscor, the body controlling South Africa's  potentially lucrative arms industry.
Meiring was first named chief of the South African Defence Force on  November 11, 1993, and had served before that as chief of the land forces  since March 1, 1990.
