The top opposition candidate in the  Dominican Republic's allegedly fraud-marred presidential vote pledged  Wednesday to take his fight to the United Nations and Organization of American  States.
No winner has been announced in the May 16 vote, which Jose Francisco Pena  Gomez, 57, says were rigged to keep him from becoming the country's first  black president this century.
He also said he would seek to level domestic criminal charges against the  electoral board.
Faced both with opposition charges of fraud and international observers'  confirmations of irregularities, the electoral board on Saturday announced a  vote-by-vote recount of ballots cast in the May 16 presidential election.
But by Tuesday plans for the recount hit a serious snag, with the board  refusing to give opposition parties official voting lists for comparison with  other lists used, something seen as essential for a successful recount.
Wednesday, its president Manuel Garcia Lizardo reiterated his decision.
Pena Gomez's leading challenger is President Joaquin Balaguer, the blind  87-year-old incumbent seeking a seventh term in office.
Supporters of Balaguer, who is white, have fuelled rumors that Pena Gomez  secretly wants to merge the country with its overwhelmingly black and poorer  neighbor, Haiti. Most Dominicans are of mixed African and European ancestry.
Pena Gomez has charged that nearly 200,000 registered voters expected to  support him were unable to vote as they were taken off voting lists though  their voter identification cards were in order.
And Wednesday, he added to his accusations, telling reporters that not  only were those voters dropped from the lists but they were replaced by others  who allegedly voted twice for Balaguer.
"The fraud could rise as high as 400,000 votes," charged Hatuey Decamps,  the secretary general of Pena Gomez's Dominican Revolutionary Party (PRD).
Balaguer has said the presidential and legislative elections were free and  fair, but that he would accept any decision by the electoral board including a  new round of voting.
Late Tuesday the electoral board released a statement saying that with  99.72 percent of the votes tallied, Balaguer was still in the lead by 30,754  votes.
Pena Gomez's PRD quickly underscored that that margin was more than narrow  enough for the tide to be turned by the number of allegedly fraudulent votes.
And only hours before a peaceful "day of prayer" observance called by the  PRD to protest the alleged fraud was to begin Wednesday, Pena Gomez urged the  United States and France to comment on Balaguer's own charge last week that  they were backing Pena Gomez, hoping to merge Haiti and the Dominican Republic  to boost their influence here.
"It is an absolute necessity to clear up this diabolical fabrication,"  Pena Gomez said.
No serious incidents have taken place since the election, but 30 people  were killed in politically motivated violence during the heated campaign to  lead this Caribbean country of seven million people to the east of Haiti, on  Hispaniola island.
Tuesday, Pena Gomez stressed that holding new elections was the most  honorable response to the tense situation, and urged Balaguer to press the  electoral board judges who support him to ensure that action was taken soon.  Three of the five judges reportedly are staunch allies of the president.
The country's economy is heavily dependent on the 1.2 billion dollar per  year tourist industry, which Pena Gomez warns could be crippled by damage to  the country's image abroad if the election troubles were not resolved soon.
