Ali Salem al-Baid on Sunday became president  of the breakaway state in southern Yemen as the north said its army had pushed  toward Baid's hometown, the south's oil region and the key city of Aden.
A missile meanwhile smashed into a house in Aden, killing four and  wounding nine others, all in the same family, ambulance crews and police said.
The north denied its troops had fired the missile but said they had  secured control of the southern military base at Al-Anad, surrounded Aden, and  were close to capturing Ateq in the key Shabwa oil province.
Northern President Ali Abdallah Saleh also said his troops were heading to  the port of Mukalla, 500 kilometers (300 miles) northeast of here where Baid  has been sheltering since last week.
The claims could not be independently verified.
Baid, who heads the Yemeni Socialist Party, was elected head of the  five-men presidential council formed earlier in the day to run the  self-proclaimed Yemeni Democratic Republic created on Saturday, Aden Radio  reported.
Sanaa had ousted Baid from his post as vice president of united Yemen.
His appointment as head of an independent state came on what would have  been the fourth anniversary of the unification of the conservative and Islamic  north with the Marxist south.
"Southern forces refuse to surrender to the criminal gang that is using  all its might to destroy cities and lay siege to Aden," Baid said in a speech  marking the Al-Adha Moslem feast.
"We did everything to avoid this catastrophe, but we reject tyrany,  oppression and surrender. If they manage to break into some regions, they will  be considered occupiers," Baid said from Mukallah.
Yemeni Planning Minister Abdel Karim Al-Iriyani, a northerner, said  Saleh's troops were "at the gates of Ataq," the main town in Shabwa province,  130 kilometers (78 miles) east of Aden.
On the northern front, Saleh's troops have been in full control of the  southern air base of Al-Anad, on the road to Aden, since Friday, according to  Sanaa Radio.
On the eastern battlefront, northern forces shot down a southern warplane  and seized 15 tanks in the Abyan region, Sanaa Radio said, adding that the  enemy suffered heavy losses.
The south said its airplanes had launched a series of raids on northern  positions and seized 30 northern tanks in Kharaz, 130 kilometres (80 miles)  west of Aden.
Saleh, who has accused the south of receiving foreign military aid, said  two airplanes landed at Mukalla airport Saturday while a warship brought in a  cargo of arms to the port.
Saleh telephoned five Arab leaders late Saturday to update them on events,  including Saudi's King Fahd and Syrian President Hafez al-Assad.
But Arab states have so far steered clear of issuing a direct condemnation  of the south's independence.
Jordanian Deputy Prime Minister Said al-Tall said his country "supports  legality in Yemen and the unity of its people."
A northern statement implied that it would cut links with any country  recognising the new republic.
In statements reported by the northern-controlled official agency Saba  several political parties denounced the secession, including the pro-Iraqi  Baath and Al-Haq, a moderate Islamic group.
The north is willing to negotiate only with Yemen Socialist Party elements  opposed to independence, Sanaa Radio said, after a faction of the southern  party was reported to have condemned Baid's declaration.
The north and south have been embroiled in a civil war since May 5, after  several months of political crisis between Baid and Saleh.
