Alex Ferguson side's defeat at Stamford Bridge could easily have gone the  other way, and the Old Trafford setback was the start of an early spring blip,  now well behind them.
If Fergie fails to become the fourth double-winning manager this century,  he will at least hope his decision to bring back goalkeeper Peter Schmeichel  does not backfire on him.
The Dane's fumbles at Wimbledon, and against Oldham in the FA Cup  semi-final, not to mention his sentry-style reluctance to leave his posts on  crosses, have been put into still more grim perspective by stand-in Gary  Walsh's confident handling in United's last two matches against Southampton  and Coventry.
United fans can only hope that Schmeichel's assurances that he has  recovered from his ankle injury are motivated more by conviction than by his  desperation to make up for missing the League Cup final against Aston Villa  through suspension.
Chelsea supporters will be encouraged by history, which, albeit  marginally,  weighs against United emulating Tottenham in 1961, Arsenal in  1971 and Liverpool in 1986 by pulling off the double.
If United's only uncapped player, Steve Bruce, does lift the Cup, manager  Ferguson says the double will be dedicated to the club's recently deceased  patriarch, Sir Matt Busby, whose legendary "babes" failed in a similar quest  in 1957 at the final hurdle against Aston Villa.
United themselves foiled domestic double chasing bids by Liverpool in 1977  and Everton in 1985, with Cup Final victories. Liverpool failed again in 1988  when they were beaten at Wembley by Wimbledon.
Frank McLintock, Arsenal's 1971 double-winning skipper, believes United  will triumph, but he has warned them against what he calls the "Jack the Lad"  syndrome.
The former Scotland defender said: "The important thing in a situation  like this is to keep your feet on the ground and avoid thinking you are better  than you really are.
"As soon as anyone does that they can get nailed. You can come unstuck.          "Liverpool always had a knack of bringing people down to earth. We tried  to copy it and it worked for us."
McLintock recalled: "We had Charlie George, who in some ways was like  Cantona.
"He could ping the ball 40 yards with the outside of his foot like a table  tennis ball.
"But aspects like closing people down and denying opponents chances are  just as important as the glitter of the game."
Probable teams
Manchester United: Schmeichel; Parker, Bruce, Pallister, Irwin;  Kanchelskis, Keane, Ince, Giggs; Cantona, Hughes. Substitutes; Walsh, two from  McClair, Sharpe, Robson
Chelsea: Kharine; Clarke, Johnsen, Kjeldbjerg, Sinclair; Burley, Newton,  Peacock, Wise; Spencer, Stein. Substitutes; Hitchcock, Hoddle, Cascarino
