The Chechen authorities have arrested a fourth  gunmen involved in the hijacking of a bus in southern Russia and returned  millions of dollars in ransom money handed over to the kidnappers, an official  of the breakaway Caucasus republic said Saturday.
Russian radio had reported Friday that the man had been shot dead after a  helicopter chase across the Caucasus following Thursday's hostage-taking  incident at Mineralnye Vody.
The four men, three of whom were said to be ethnic Chechens armed with  submachine-guns and a grenade, hijacked the bus, taking 23 adults and 15  children hostage.
All were released safely Friday after a crack Russian unit fired on the  mens' getaway helicopter and arrested three of the criminals.
Russian interior ministry authorities confirmed a Chechen statement that  the ransom, demanded by the gunmen in return for the hostages' release, had  been recovered, "save for some 10,000 to 20,000 dollars," and handed in to  Russian officials.
Russian radio earlier reported the ransom had disappeared with the fourth  hostage-taker.
However, the exact size of the ransom remained unclear. A spokesman for  the Russian interior ministry said at least four million dollars had been  handed over to the gunmen, half the figure quoted earlier.
Chechen presidential spokesman Movladi Udugov, contacted by phone from  Moscow, said the money had been returned to Russian authorities following a  written agreement.
He added the fourth gunman was captured Friday afternoon and handed over  to Russian forces, but this was not independently confirmed by Moscow.
The fourth man was believed to be from Daghestan, also part of the Russian  federation and situated on Chechnya's eastern border, but further details of  his identity were unavailable.
Udugov was also unable to confirm the exact size of the ransom.
Tensions between Moscow and Chechnya have run high since October 1991 when  the tiny republic declared independence.
A spokesman for Chechen President Dzhokar Dudayev, who escaped unhurt from  an assassination attempt late Friday, said that incident was not being linked  to the hostage-taking.
