Malawians decided to take a holiday on Tuesday as  the country held its first multi-party elections since independence, set to  end three decades of rule by the aged President Kamuzu Banda.
Offices were deserted as long queues of voters grew outside polling  stations in Blantyre, the economic capital of the small southern African  nation, and most shops owned by Asians were closed, apparently for fear of  looting.
"We will open after the results are announced and we are assured there is  no trouble," one storekeeper, Issa Osman, told AFP as 3.8 million Malawians  were called to the polls.
Shops owned by the president, of state, whose octopus-like Press Holdings  conglomerate controls 30 percent of impoverished Malawi's economy, were open  and unguarded by security police.
"The government blundered not to declare May 17 a public holiday. Who can  work today?" asked civil servant Ben Phiri, on his way home after voting in  the centre of town.
In Ndiranda, the biggest Blantyre township perched on hills overlooking  the city, crowds of voters began arriving at the schools where the voting was  to take place at 3:00 a.m. (0100 GMT), three hours before the polls opened.
No trouble was reported from the polling stations.
Though more than 60 percent of Malawians are illiterate, many seemed  familiar with the voting procedure after a referendum last year, which forced  Banda to end the single-party rule of his Malawi Congress Party (MCP).
"We just want to vote to continue the process of change after the  referendum," one voter, Kalonga Stambuli, said. "We don't care who becomes the  next president so long as it's not Banda."
Banda, who officially turned 89 on Saturday but is believed to be at least  93, has led Rwanda with iron-fisted paternalism since independence from  Britain in 1964.
He faces three contenders for the presidency -- a former aide gone into  opposition, Bakili Muluzi of the United Democratic Front, trade unionist  Chakufwa Chihana, who spearheaded the campaign for political pluralism in 1992  and is backed by the Alliance for Democracy, and Kamlepo Kalua of the Malawi  Democratic Party.
A fifth candidate, Tim Mangwazu of the Malawi National Democratic Party,  has pulled out of the presidential race and is fighting only for a  parliamentary seat in the general elections taking place alongside the  presidential poll.
Muluzi is favoured to win, but political analysts say that he is unlikely  to secure an outright majority.
"We should, however, get some indication of who is winning by 12  midnight," Ndirande returning officer Esther Msowoya said.
Polling officials said that civic education was not adequate as some  voters had to have procedures explained to them on the spot to enable them to  choose their candidate, after dipping their finger in indelible red ink.
In the rural Mzedi district, some 20 kilometres (12 miles) from Blantyre,  voting official Wilfred Tembo said some people had mistaken the wastepaper bin  for the ballot box.
Nearly 300 international observers have been deployed to monitor the vote.  The polls close at 6:00 p.m. (1600 GMT) and the final results are expected to  be known on Thursday.
