The Federal Reserve boosted two key interest  rates Tuesday and appeared to succeed in reassuring financial markets, with  analysts predicting the increase would be the last for a while.
The Fed raised the overnight interbank rate half a percentage point from  3.75 percent to 4.25 percent and its discount rate from three to 3.5 percent.
It was the fourth rise in the overnight rate for loans between commercial  banks since February, but the first for the discount rate -- the interest the  Fed charges for direct loans to banks -- in five years.
Unlike the three earlier rate hikes, which sparked a slump in stocks and  bond, this one was welcomed on Wall Street.
The Dow Jones industrial average, helped by a late buying surge after the  Fed action was announced, climbed 47.58 points. The yield on 30-year Treasury  bonds meanwhile fell to 7.25 percent from 7.45 percent hours earlier.
"It means (the rates are) back to neutral level, it implies they are not  going to increase for some time," Chris Iggo of Chase Manhattan Bank said of  the Fed action.
The Fed said the move was "designed to maintain the favorable trend in  inflation and thereby sustain the economic expansion."
"As always, the Fed will continue to monitor economic and financial  developments to judge the appropriate stance of monetary policy," the Fed said  in a statement after a meeting of its Open Market Committee which sets US  monetary policy.
The meeting had been widely expected to raise short-term rates, with the  only real question the scale of the overnight rate increase.
The federal funds rate had been at three percent at the start of the year  before the central bank began a surprise move in February aimed at averting  future inflationary pressures.
Major banks reacted to the Fed move by boosting their prime rate, the base  lending rate for corporations, which also determines rates for consumer  credit. Citibank, Chase Manhattan, Mellon Bank and First Bank System all  raised their prime rate to 7.25 percent from 6.75 percent.
The rate increase was good news for the dollar, which rose to 1.6710  German marks from 1.6645 earlier in the day and 104.50 yen from 104.20.
"An agressive Fed is good for the dollar (but) markets need to have  faith," said Paul Mastrodi of J.P. Morgan, who noted that German interest  rates could soon be lower than rates in the United States.
President Bill Clinton told reporters shortly before the Fed announcement  that he believed the US economy could absorb an increase in rates without  slowing growth.
"I have every confidence that we're still going to have another good year  this year and that we will be able to offset any modest increase in interest  rates with increased growth," Clinton said.
Clinton earlier had argued earlier that the increase in interest rates was  unwarranted and could slow US economic growth.
But Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said Friday he believed economic  growth would be higher than the three percent predicted by President Bill  Clinton's administration to date.
