President Boris Yeltsin appointed Monday a regional  official from southern Russia to the key post of nationalities minister,  signalling the Kremlin's fresh resolve to defuse ethnic tension in the  troubled northern Caucasus region.
Nikolai Yegorov, 42, an ethnic Cossack who headed the regional  administration of Krasnodar, replaced Sergei Shakhrai, a deputy prime minister  who also held the nationalities portfolio, the presidential press service said.
Shakhrai will retain the rank of deputy prime minister and the regional  policy portfolio.
The appointment came after Shakhrai failed in consecutive rounds of  negotiations to restore relations with the breakaway republic of Chechnya  which declared independence from Moscow in 1991.
Attempts at resolving the conflict between ethnic Ingush and Ossetians in  the Caucasus republic of North Ossetia have also failed to yield results  following a brief outbreak of fighting in the fall of 1992.
As governor of the Krasnodar region, Yegorov has managed to maintain  stability in a multi-ethnic region bordering Russia's trouble spots in the  Northern Caucasus, the ITAR-TASS news agency said.
"He enjoys considerable authority, not only in that territory, but also  among the leaders of Russia's northern Caucasus republics," the news agency  said.
The Krasnodar region has been hard hit by a flow of refugees from the  northern Caucasus -- a diverse region made up of dozens of ethnic groups and  clans -- and also from the west Georgian province of Abkhazia.
The pro-reform newspaper Sevodnya reported last week that the imminent  appointment of Yegorov signalled a strengthening of regional political elites  in Russia.
Yegorov's appointment came after a five-hour meeting with Yeltsin two  months ago during which the two men discussed Russian migration from former  Soviet republics and ethnic problems in the northern Caucasus.
The Kremlin views ethnic tension in the northern Caucasus as a potentially  explosive situation and has imposed a state of emergency in several regions to  prevent a slide towards civil war.
In his negotiations with the rebel Chechen leadership, Shakhrai pressed for  early elections to the presidency of the republic, a stand which offended  local leaders who demanded Shakhrai's resignation as a condition for holding  settlement talks.
Chechen leader Djokhar Dudayev has refused to sign the federation treaty,  which defines Russia's component territories and has virtually ignored all  decisions emanating from Moscow.
In North Ossetia, thousands of Ingush refugees have yet to return to their  homes following ethnic fighting in the fall of 1992 sparked by Ingush demands  for the annexation of part of North Ossetia to nearby Ingushetia.
Ethnic Ingush claim that the Prigorodny region of North Ossetia is part of  their historic homeland which was partitioned under Stalin in 1944.
cml/
n0904 16Mai94
