White right-wing Conservative Party (CP) leader  Ferdi Hartzenberg Tuesday declared himself "very satisfied" with negotiations  he has been holding with President Nelson Mandela on the creation of a  separate white homeland.
Addressing the press at Donkerhoek near here, where white extremists have  until recently been running an illegal radio station, Hartzenberg said he was  convinced Mandela was genuinely trying to accommodate Afrikaners.
Hartzenberg agreed at a meeting with Mandela on Monday to join tripartite  talks on a "volkstaat", or white homeland, involving the government, the CP  and another right-wing group, the Freedom Front (FF).
The CP boycotted South Africa's first all-race elections last month to  press its demand for a volkstaat and warned that Afrikaners would resort to  violence to achieve their goal.
But on Monday, Hartzenberg, who claims to represent two-thirds of the  country's estimated three million white Afrikaners, said that the CP had  decided to negotiate directly with the government on a volkstaat.
"Procedures have been put in place to make progress and I'm optimistic  there is no need for violence to achieve results," Hartzenberg said after his  talks with Mandela.
Maintaining his upbeat mood on Tuesday, Hartzenberg described the forum  created by Mandela to discuss the concept of a volkstaat as a "peaceful route."
"I am very satisfied with negotiations with the government so far," he  said.
More and more people realised and supported the idea that the Afrikaner  nation should be accommodated, Hartzenberg added.
"If the Afrikaner nation is free, it will put everything into it" to  develop the nation and the country as a whole, he said.
He believed the many practical problems standing in the way of a volkstaat  could be solved through negotiations.
"We have always preferred the peaceful option," Hartzenberg said.
Despite the CP leader's claim of widespread support from Afrikaners, very  few people attended festivities at Donkerhoek organised by the CP to celebrate  Republic Day, marking the day South Africa became a republic in 1961.
Hartzenberg, according to domestic news agency SAPA, ascribed the low  turnout to poor publicity.
