Rwandan rebels captured Kigali airport early  Sunday, UN spokesman Abdul Kabia announced.
Kabia, reached by telephone in Rwanda, said the airport, where 200  Ghanaian  UN troops are stationed, fell to the mostly Tutsi Rwandan Patriotic  Front (RPF) soldiers at about 6.00 a.m. (0400 GMT) with no casualties reported.
"The RPF soldiers are everywhere, in the buildings, on the runway," one  military source said.
Kabia said an adjoining military base, Camp Kanombe, was still held by the  mainly Hutu government army, but was encircled by the rebels.
He said the army appeared to have abandoned its positions around the  airport, where it had stationed anti-aircraft guns.
Kabia added that about 300 people in civilian clothing left the camp after  the rebels arrived at the airport and asked the Ghanaian contingent for  protection.
He said some of them whom carried guns, grenades and machettes. They were  disarmed and were still at the airport at mid-day Sunday.
The Ghanaian contingent would remain at the airport until the situation  changed, he said.
An independent military source said the army on Saturday asked the UN  Assistance Mission in Rwanda (UNAMIR) and the Red Cross to evacuate 160  injured people from the camp.
The battle for the airport, located on the outskirts of the capital, had  raged four days, preventing relief planes from landing and halting UN efforts  to pave the way for a new peacekeeping mission.
The United Nations has been trying to secure neutral status for the  airport to allow it to fly in humanitarian aid and reinforcements for the UN  peacekeeping troops.
The rebels replied that they considered the airport a military target  because of the government army base beside it.
Kabia said that the UNAMIR headquarters at the Hotel Amahoro, in the  eastern part of the capital, was shelled Saturday but there were no  casualties.
At least two million people have been made homeless by the fighting which  erupted in early April, and hundreds of thousands have fled the country.
Estimates of those butchered range between 200,000 and 500,000.
