PLO leader Yasser Arafat's intention of  returning in triumph to the West Bank within the next three weeks has set  Israeli nerves jangling and launched preparations for huge protests.
The anger generated in Israel this week after it was revealed that Arafat  had called for a holy war to liberate Jerusalem, offered an early warning of  the fiery passions likely to be unleashed.
"I'm coming," Arafat told Israel's biggest-selling daily newspaper Yediot  Aharonot, which turned the statement into almost a battle cry.
"I don't have an exact date. But all the PLO leadership will come with me  to Jericho," he said.
Nabil Shaath, his right-hand man confirmed that "Abu Ammar", the nom de  guerre of the Palestinian figurehead, would be back "in the first half of  June".
The arrival of Shaath on Friday, the most senior personality of the  Palestinian diaspora to visit Gaza since 1967, brought home to many that  Arafat could soon be striding through the streets of the autonomous Jericho  enclave and the Strip.
"There is no crisis with Israel over the jihad, it's a religious concept,"    the PLO leader told the Yediot, explaining his remark made in a Johannesburg  mosque earlier in the week.
But Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin issued an immediate warning that the  peace process could be in danger. And he was not satisfied with Arafat's  explanations either, terming them "evasive".
The PLO chief said a jihad could be waged for peace and even suggested the  emotive word could be used in the context of "I will continue my jihad ... to  bring Christians, Moslems and Jews to pray together in Jerusalem."
The prospects of Arafat praying in Jerusalem at the Dome of the Rock and  al-Aqsa mosques brought a shudder to many an Israeli.
Far-right wing MP Hanan Porat of the National Religious Party, did not  mince words.
"This assassin Arafat, he who calls for a jihad to liberate Jersualem,  will not set foot in Jerusalem," he told parliament.
Equally up in arms was Ehud Olmert, mayor of Jerusalem, which Israel has  declared its eternal, united capital since capturing the eastern sector in the  1967 Middle East war.
Olmert declared the "city of peace" closed to Arafat and vowed that the  Temple Mount, or Haram Al-Sharif, would not be turned into a political forum  to incite the two million Palestinians.
The mayor fired off a letter to Rabin demanding a strong stance from the  government. "Arafat has violated all the agreements that were signed and is  encouraging terror in Israel, specifically Jerusalem," he charged.
The right-wing, allied with Jewish settlers, has announced that "he shall  not pass".
If Arafat tries to enter to holy city they will be ready with plans to  surround Jerusalem with a human ring of thousands and thousands of protestors.
Even Yossi Sarid, the dovish Environment Minister, who supports a  Palestinian state, was stirred to deliver a stern rebuke.
"If he uses the word jihad once more, Yasser Arafat can sweat all summer  in Jericho where it's hot day and night and finish his political career as  mayor," he barked.
Such a sentence would not bother the 15,000 Palestinians who sweat it out  year in year out in the West Bank oasis.
Certainly not Jericho singer Ahmed Klebo who has cut a record for Arafat's  return, which is already the success of a sizzling summer.
"We welcome you dear Abu Ammar, we are ready to lay down our lives for  you," Klebo intones to upbeat Arab pop rhythms.
"Welcome, welcome, you are the symbol of our cause. We support everything  you do, big and small."
Despite the uncertain first steps of the new Palestinian police and  Israeli fears, Jericho will guarantee Arafat a welcome probably never seen  this side of Suez.
