Andre Agassi brought Mats Wilander's trip down  memory lane to an abrupt early end in the first round of the French Open on  Monday.
The flamboyant American, who missed last year's tournament because of  tendinitis in his wrist, triumphed 6-2, 7-5, 6-1 to take revenge for his  defeat in his last encounter with the former world number one.
That was six years ago in a semi-final clash on the same centre court.  Agassi was an unseeded 18-year-old just making a name for himself. Wilander  was the world's best player set to go on to win the title in a year in which  he also claimed the Australian and US Open titles.
This time, the boot was on the other foot. Agassi never looked in serious  danger against the 29-year-old who has returned to the circuit three years  after a knee injury had apparently brought his career to an end.
"The last time I played Mats in any match was that time in 1988, so it was  strange to be going out there against him against him," Agassi, the 1990 and  1991 runner up who is unseeded here for the first time since 1988, said.
"He is still a great counterpuncher but I'm a lot more patient now and  I've added power to my game so I didn't allow him to do it as well as he did  back then."
Wilander, having narrowly missed out in the first set, served twice for  the second set after going 5-2 up. But he failed to convert five set points  and the American won nine games on the trot before a concentration lapse  allowed his Swedish opponent a solitary game in the final set.
"I certainly did not anticipate winning the second set," Agassi admitted.  "He started feeding off my pace and was controlling the match."
Wilander felt the match was closer than the score indicated but paid  tribute to Agassi's strength on the key points.
"He won the big points and that is what you have to do. I'm not sure he  can  win here but it is definitely possible."
Wilander, who reached the third round of last year's US Open on a wildcard  and was a semi-finalist at Pinehurst earlier in the year, is resigned to the  fact that he is unlikely to relive his previous triumphs.
"The guys are hitting the ball a little harder, I'm a bit slower and taken  together that makes a big difference," he said.
But he intends to carry on playing as long as he is enjoying it. "After  1991 I'd never have imagined I would play here on the centre court again.
"It's disappointing to lose but tomorrow I'll forget about it. I live for  the moment and don't worry about the future. At the moment I At the moment  it's a pleasure but if it stops being fun then I'll stop."
Agassi's victory earned him a second round tie with 11th seed Thomas Muster  -- a tough clash that will be severe test of his belief that he can become the  first seeded player to win a Grand Slam title since Boris Becker at Wimbledon  in 1985.
"Muster is a very experienced and disciplined clay court player. There are  never any easy matches against him," Agassi said.
am94
