North Korea on Thursday blasted Japan as a "nuclear  criminal" and urged the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to look into  its "concealment of 70 kilograms of plutonium."
"Recently, the true color of Japan as a nuclear criminal was dragged into  the light of day, causing quite a stir worldwide," a North Korean foreign  ministry spokesman said in a statement.
The statement carried by the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) said: "The  IAEA secretariat must pay a due attention to this problem in compliance with  the principle of impartiality."
It was referring to earlier press reports here that 70 kilograms (154  pounds) of plutonium had been found stuck to processing equipment held in  Tokai village, northeast of here, by the governmental Power Reactor and  Nuclear Fuel Development Corp.
"Judging from the fact that many nuclear facilities of Japan have been in  operation for scores of years, it is self-evident that the recently discovered  plutonium is only a tiny part of the amount concealed in Japan," the statement  said.
"The Japanese authorities must declare to the world public the exact total  amount of plutonium now concealed nationwide, and immediately stop nuclear  armament."
The statement also said: "We consider that since it has been confirmed as  a fact that Japan's nuclear armament is being promoted on the danger line, the  denuclearization of the Korean peninsula is practically meaningless."
Government officials here say that Japan maintains the three non-nuclear  principles of not producing, possessing or bringing in nuclear weapons and  that it had 4.5 tonnes of plutonium at the end of 1992 for generating electric  power.
The North Korean statement said: "The case also clearly indicates that the  so-called three non-nuclear principles advertised so often by Japan are  nothing but a screen for concealing a large quantity of plutonium and  accelerating nuclear armament."
Three IAEA inspectors arrived in North Korea Tuesday to check an  experimental plant in Yongbyon, north of Pyongyang, suspected by Western  countries of storing plutonum for making nuclear warheads.
Meanwhile, Japan's Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroshi Kumagai said Thursday  that Japan strongly wanted North Korea to accept full outside inspections of  its nuclear facilities.
"We think North Korea has yet to allay concerns that it is diverting its  nuclear materials for military use," the chief government spokesman said at a  news conference.
