Victims of "false memory syndrome" marked a  milestone against psychiatrists with the court-room victory last week of a  father over his daughter who said she remembered through psychological therapy  being raped by him.
The 500,000 dollars in damages and interest the jury awarded to  50-year-old Gary Ramona could signal - if it survives appeal - a reverse in  legal trends, exposing practitioners who abuse their techniques to reveal  "recovered memories" to a wave of litigation.
The suit brought against the therapists of the daughter, Holly Ramona,  exposes the problem of doctors who use the recovered memory as a single  answer, said professor Thomas Gutheil, specialist in law and psychology at  Harvard University.
"Some (therapists) tell their patients when they cross the door that they  can see from the way they walk that they have been abused when they were a  child. That is a very serious problem," says Gutheil.
However Gutheil, summoned in the defense of psychiatrist Richard Rose, the  doctor who treated Holly Ramona, adds that it is very dangerous to have  allowed Gary Ramona's case to proceed because it violates the court practice  in which a third party cannot sue a doctor.
The trend does not stop with the experience of Gary Ramona, who said he  lost his wife and his 400,000-dollar-a-year job as vice president with Robert  Mondavi, one of the largest wine dealers in California.
The case was simply the latest in a wave of accusations of incest that  have submerged the United States in sex-case litigation through the use of  hypnosis, aggressive questioning and sodium pentothal by psychiatrists.
Whichever technique is employed, the prinicple seeks to reveal the most  profound memories with the risk that all the suggestions of doctors throughout  therapy sow confusion between true memory and false imaginings.
According to specialists called to the defense for Gary Ramona, family  counselor Marche Isabella said bulimia, the eating disorder Holly suffered,  stemmed from sexual abuse she choked back.
After standard therapy Holly asked her doctor to prescribe drug treatment  to contain her opened memories. Rose administered the treatment.
During the trial Ramona's lawyers succeeded in demonstrating that if Holly  refused to see a gynechologist and had an aversion for bananas and cheese  fondu, that did not constitute proof that her father had raped her.
The victory was clinched when specialist Leonore Terr, author of a  reference book on the subject, "Unchained Memories", was summoned by the  defense. Terr qualified as dubious the nature of Holly's memory, according to  which she had been forced to perform fellatio on the family dog.
Casting doubt of one memory undermined all the credibility of the young  woman.
The False Memory Syndrome Foundation said it has received 12,000 letters  and telephone calls, mainly from parents, since it began in 1990.
Whatever the court of appeals verdict, the Ramona affair will be added to  the other cases in which psychological practices have been cast in doubt.
Such is the recent case of Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, archbishop of  Chicago, saved from the shame by his former choir boy Steven Cook. Cook had  accused, based on memories revealed through psychotherapy, Bernardin of sexual  abuse, but retracted the his complaint in February because he could no longer  be sure of his memories.
