Six people were killed Saturday in clashes between  the army and leftist rebels, violently capping what has been an otherwise  peaceful campaign to succeed President Cesar Gaviria a day before the vote.
The Defense Ministry said the fighting broke out in the departments of  Caqueta, Huila and Antioquia. Three rebels, two army troops and one civilian  were killed, the ministry reported.
Electoral authorities cancelled voting at polling stations in 20 remote  districts along the Caribbean coast because of rebel threats, officials said.
Saturday's climate of fighting and intimidation came in sharp contrast to  a presidential campaign marred by much less bloodshed than those of the recent  past.
In the 1990 election, three presidential hopefuls were assassinated,  including frontrunner Luis Carlos Galan of the ruling Liberals.
The key difference is that the government is no longer battling the  Medellin drug cartel, which Gaviria's government helped break by following a  strategy of
negotiating, granting leniency to criminals who confessed to at least one  crime, and pledging no extradition to the United States.
The policy has drawn fire from the United States, but is widely credited  here with ending bomb attacks on the capital that terrorized Colombians for  years. Now, the Cali cartel has replaced the Medellin as the country's leading  narcotics processor and exporter, and allegedly has sought discreetly to buy  government protection.
Gaviria, a Liberal, leaves office at 47 with an unusually high 60 percent  popularity rating. The constitution bars the president from serving a second  consecutive four-year term.
Both leading candidates have promised to keep Gaviria's drugs strategy in  effect.
Their platforms part ways mainly on economics, with Liberal Ernesto Samper  more cautious about the pace of selling off state businesses and dropping  trade barriers than Conservative Andres Pastrana, who has campaigned as more  of a full-force free-marketeer.
Some 17 million voters are registered to choose Gaviria's successor in the  tight race that may send voting into a second round for the first time in the  country's history.
Samper, an economist and Gaviria's former development minister, and  Pastrana, the journalist son of a former president, each has been polling at  about 45 percent. Samper had led for weeks, but a survey this week for the  first time gave Pastrana the edge.
Their Liberal and Conservative parties have dominated this geographically  diverse country of tropical lowlands, Andean highlands and valleys, and  Caribbean and Pacific coasts since the 19th century.
Under new electoral rules of the 1991 constitution, if no candidate draws  an absolute majority of the votes, the election will move into a runoff to be  held June 19. Early returns are expected around 2000 GMT; final results are  due around 0200 to 0300 GMT Monday.
Also for the first time, voters here will elect a vice president, running  on the ticket with their presidential candidate.
Previously, Congress could elect a president for a two-year term in the  event the presidency became vacant. But the elected vice president now will be  first in line in the power succession in the event of such a crisis.
Polls put former M-19 guerrilla leader and Gaviria's former health  minister, Antonio Navarro, in third place with about five percent of the vote.
Others among the crowded field of 18 presidential candidates include  psychic Regina de Liska, better known as Regina-11; and Christian  televangelist Jorge Guillermo Barbosa. Three women are representing minor  parties.
Saturday's attacks underscored that Colombia's next president will have to  confront the challenge of the country's two largest rebel movements: the  ultranationalist National Liberation Army, which wants foreign interests out  of Colombia's oil industry, and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia.
Gaviria began talks with the rebels almost as soon as he took power in  1990 with periodic meetings around Colombia and in Venezuela and Mexico.  Still, about 10,000 guerrillas are believed to be active nationwide.
When Gaviria's term ends in August he will take over as secretary general  of the Organization of American States in Washington.
