Andre Agassi faces a hefty fine after leaving a  stream of obscenities trailing in his wake as he crashed out of the French  Open on Tuesday.
The American, who had earlier been given a warning for verbal abuse of  umpire Bruno Rebeuh, was docked a penalty point at a crucial stage in the  fifth set of a dramatic defeat by Austria's Thomas Muster.
Muster, the 11th seed, finally overcame the two-times finalist 6-3, 6-7  (5/7), 7-5, 2-6, 7-5 after 3h 43min in a 2nd round tie that was the most  thrilling encounter yet at this year's tournament.
Having been blasted off the court in the first set, Agassi rallied  repeatedly as the match seemed to be slipping away from him.
He was down 5-3 in the second, which he came back to win in the tie-break,  and trailed 5-1 in the final set before producing some brilliant,  inspirational tennis to battle back to 5-5.
But having done all the hard work, Agassi blasted an easy forehand at the  net long to give Muster a third chance to serve for the match, which he took.
It might all have been different however but for the penalty point that  came in the third game of the final set after Agassi reacted to a careless  error with a frustrated cry of "faggot!."
Muster took advantage by clinching a second break to go 3-0 up, leaving  Agassi to come within an ace of being defaulted as he angrily remonstrated  with Rebeuh at the changeover.
"If I had known I'd get a warning for that in the fifth set, I'd never  have done it. It's sad that a guy could have done something like that to me,"  a visibly distraught Agassi said afterwards.
"I had been saying it all through the match so I was a bit surprised when  he comes out with this warning."
Agassi, who had been shouting obscenities at himself all through the first  three sets, would have probably have got away with his outbursts if it had not  been for the incident that led to him being warned for verbal abuse in the  sixth game of the fourth set.
When the umpire came off his line to over-rule a linesman who had called  Muster's second serve long, Agassi turned to the crowd at his end of the court  and remarked: "This f...ing guy is incredible."
Having improved steadily throughout the match to a peak close to his best  obviously increased the frustration for Agassi, currently trying to rebuild  his career after an injury-wrecked 1993 and surgery on his wrist at Christmas.
"I have had a rough clay court season and I knew that I was in for a tough  match here. But if I had been able to get through a match like that I think it  would have been very beneficial and I would have been ready to do great things  here again."
Despite his disappointment, Agassi felt his performance in his first five  set battle since last year's US Open boded well for his preparations for  Wimbledon.
"Since I got back in shape I've not been pushed that distance and it is  nice to know I can count on my stamina when I need to."
Muster, who escaped a warning himself after smashing his raquet into his  chair as Agassi came back at him in the fifth, plays Australian Davis Cup  player Patrick Rafter for a place in the last-sixteen.
