Ukrainian troops repulsed an attempt to seize one  of their air defence command posts in Sevastopol, Crimea, the Kiev defence  ministry said late Friday.
In a statement broadcast by Ukrainian television and monitored by the BBC,  the ministry said "a group of unidentified armed people" had tried to capture  the post in the port city.
The attempt was countered by "resolute actions" by servicemen guarding the  post, who were "an obstacle on the criminals' path", the ministry's statement  said.
News of the attack came amid a mounting political crisis between Ukraine  and Crimea.
Earlier in the day Ukrainian lawmakers suspended the constitution of the  autonomous republic, parliamentary sources in Kiev said, after Crimean  deputies adopted a basic law tantamount to a declaration of independence from  Kiev.
In the closed-session vote Ukrainian deputies gave the pro-Russian Crimean  assembly 10 days to "conform with the laws and constitution of Ukraine".
Meanwhile, in a second dispatch out of Moscow also monitored by the BBC,     Crimea's Russian nationalist President Yuri Meshkov called on Russia to stop  Ukraine introducing direct presidential rule in the republic.
The Russian defence ministry's Radio Slavyanka said that Meshkov, speaking  at a session of the Crimean parliament, accused Ukraine of intensifying  pressure on Crimea and attempting to provoke a conflict.
The Ukrainian defence ministry added that Lieutenant General Mikhaylo  Lopatin, commander of Kiev's air defence troops, had received a telephone call  from a Meshkov aide asking what his forces would do "in the event of the  unsanctioned appearance of planes from foreign states over Crimea".
He replied that "in cases of violations of Ukraine's air space, the troops  would act in accordance with combat duty regulations, employing the necessary  forces and means."
Lawmakers in the predominantly Russian-populated republic voted  overwhelmingly Friday in favour of restoring a 1992 constitution that  establishes treaty relations between Kiev and Crimea, allows for Crimean  citizenship and provides for the establishment of a local militia force.
The vote -- seen by Ukrainian authorities as amounting to a declaration of  independence -- came despite a warning from Ukrainian President Leonid  Kravchuk that Kiev "has enough power to force respect" of its sovereignty.
Presenting the law Kravchuk condemned the Crimean deputies' vote as "a  step towards Crimea's separation from Ukraine".
In Moscow, Russian President Boris Yeltsin said he had warned Kravchuk to  refrain from using force against the secessionist republic and that the  Ukrainian leader had assured him he would not inflame the situation, the  Interfax agency reported.
Kravchuk did not specify what measures the Kiev parliament would take  against the Simferopol legislature if it failed to reverse its decision.
