Main men's singles contenders at this year's French
SERGI BRUGUERA (Spain x6):
Like so many of his compatriots, the 23-year-old defending champion is  always at home on a clay court and always a dangerous opponent. His classic  five-set victory in last year's final over title-holder Jim Courier was his  first Grand Slam victory. But when he returns for a sixth campaign in the  French capital he will not start favourite. The 6ft 2in (1m88) Barcelona  player, who is coached by his father Luis, has not won a title so far this  year and was a beaten finalist at both the Monte Carlo Open and Madrid.
Strengths: Baseline regularity and speed about court
Weaknesses: Service
PETE SAMPRAS (USA x1):
The quiet, 22-year-old American arrives in Paris with an impeccable record  of five consecutive tournament wins -- including his latest clay-court triumph  at the Italian Open. He has been beaten only twice in the nine events he has  entered in 1994 and holds wins this season over most of his top rivals. He has  beaten Stefan Edberg, Boris Becker, Michael Chang, Thomas Muster and the  emerging Russian prospect Yevgeny Kafelnikov. And he has also rubbed salt in  bleeding wounds by defeating fellow-Americans Jim Courier, Andre Agassi and  Ivan Lendl -- TWICE. He lost to eventual champion Bruguera in the  quarter-finals last year and will be entering the event for a fifth time and  chasing an elusive out-of-sequence 'Grand Slam' after his triumphs at this  year's Australian Open and last year's Wimbledon and US Open.
Strenghths: Excellent service and volley, powerful groundstrokes and  strong mental control.
Weaknesses: Despite improvements still more at home on a faster surface.
MICHAEL STICH (Germany x2)
Reached the French Open semi-final in 1991 -- the same year he won  Wimbledon. The 25-year-old 6ft 4in player, who nearly turned to professional  football instead of tennis as a teenager, will be staging his sixth Roland  Garros campaign. So far this year he has failed to match his magnificent 1993  form when he led Germany to Davis Cup triumph and capped a superb season by  winning the ATP Finals. So far this year he has posted only one tournament win  -- at Munich where he beat Petr Korda, but he remains convinced a  'serve-and-volley' player can win the world's toughest clay-court event.
Strengths: Excellent service and effective volley
Weaknesses: Can become distracted.
