Indian Prime Minister R.V. Narasimha Rao and  President Bill Clinton took a major step in improving strained relations  between the two countries here on Thursday.
Rao's visit to the United States was the first by an Indian prime minister  since 1987 when Rajiv Gandhi came and was hoped to help mend strained  relations over what India has perceived as neglect by Washington.
"Today, we began what I hope will be a very close working relationship,"  Clinton said at the White House after two hours of discussions that covered  bilateral trade and South Asia security concerns.
Clinton highlighted their common goals, notably the success of Rao's  economic liberalization and the vast potential of trade between the two  countries that last year totalled seven billion dollars.
Clinton acknowledged there are still differences over human rights and  nuclear non-proliferation "but in the context of our common interests and  common values, we believe they can be managed in a constructive way."
US officials speaking on background said the two leaders did touch on  nuclear non-proliferation and the India-Pakistan conflict over Kashmir,  matters that will be dealt with during ongoing contact between the two  countries.
Clinton announced that Energy Secretary Hazel O'Leary will go to India in  July to explore renewable energy prospects and Commerce Secretary Ron Brown  will go in November to promote trade and investment.
Roa also invited Clinton to visit India at his convenience and Clinton  nodded in agreement.
As they spoke, hundreds of Sikhs and Kashmiris chanted "ballots not  bullets" and marched around Lafayette Park across from the White House,  denouncing Rao for what they said was repression by Indian security forces in  Kashmir.
Asked by a reporter whether widespread allegations of Indian human rights  violations in Kashmir were true, Rao answered bluntly, "No. They are not."  When reporters present began to laugh, Rao chuckled.
Human Rights Watch/Asia and Physicians for Human Rights released a report  Wednesday accusing Indian police of murdering and torturing hundreds of Sikhs  during the decade-long insurgency in Punjab and using the same methods in  Kashmir.
