Returns on Japan's net external assets over the past  decade have frequently been negative, the international trade and industry  ministry says, calling for capital flows to be routed back towards Japan.
The ministry's annual white paper on international trade, approved by  cabinet Tuesday, notes that in the past, Japan's huge current account  surpluses have been largely "recycled" with capital flowing back overseas.
Japan's net external assets stood at 67 trillion yen (644 billion dollars)  in 1992, up from 52 trillion yen a year earlier. But with a current account  surplus of 15 trillion yen, the net return on those assets was zero.
At the same time, the yield on gross external assets was only 3.8 percent,  falling below the 4.9 percent yield on Japanese government bonds.
"We've changed our assets from yen to dollars, and so have been constantly  losing money," said Midori Tani, the director of the ministry's international  trade research office, who authored this year's report.
Japan's huge trade surplus, a persistent source of friction with its  trading partners, could be more usefully recycled towards sectors in Japan  which lag behind the rest of the world such as housing or services.
Tani, speaking at a news conference, noted that despite its small size,  Singapore's housing situation was under much less strain than that in Japan,  thanks to the local government's ambitious public housing program.
The ministry's recommendations are in line with demands from the United  States which has long been urging Japan to modernise its infrastructure as a  means of making the overall economy more dynamic.
The rerouting of Japanese capital flows back towards Japan is, however,  already taking place to some extent.
Japan's long-term capital surplus, measuring net inflows of funds mainly  from securities transactions, hit all-time highs in both February and March,  partly reflecting record selling of foreign bonds by Japanese investors. At  the same time, foreign buying of Japanese shares soared to new records.
But in improving the country's social infrastructure, Japan also needs to  promote direct investment by foreign companies which, the white paper admits,  still remains at the lowest level among major developed countries.
To boost foreign direct investment in Japan, the ministry calls for the  easing of restrictions on setting up new companies, the strengthening of  research and development and further financial deregulation.
The white paper also notes that while Japan has been accumulating record  trade surpluses, it is also the country with the biggest deficit in invisible  trade -- services such as shipping and tourism.
Japan's invisible trade deficit was 46 billion dollars in 1992, of which  tourism accounted for about a half. That compares Germany's deficit of 37  billion dollars. The United States had an invisible trade surplus of 57  billion dollars while France's surplus is services was 19 billion dollars.
