Russian writer and dissident Alexander  Solzhenitsyn left his isolated New England refuge Wednesday to return to  Russia, 20 years after being ordered into exile.
The 75-year-old Nobel laureate and his wife Natalia, her mother and the  couple's son Ignat will fly to the former Soviet Union via Anchorage, Alaska  and enter eastern Russia first. They are not expected in the Russia's Pacific  port of Vladivostok until Friday.
As the two cars carrying Solzhenitsyn and his family left the compound,  the caravan paused at the property line for a moment to give the former  dissident a last look at his home of nearly two decades.
He declined to answer questions posed by reporters gathered outside.
"He's very calm. It's obviously a very important moment for him," said  Ignat before the family departed on Wednesday. "He's going to acquaint himself  with the conditions of life there with the general climate. He's not afraid at  all."
"He knows that after 20 years it's going to be very difficult," the  younger Solzhenitsyn told journalists and photographers massed outside his  property chosen for the birch woods and long winters chosen for their  similarity to Russia.
The family will fly to Alaska, where they will catch a flight to  Vladivostok. The flight will make stopovers in the far east city of  Khabarovskin and in Magadan, a dispatch center from where political prisoners  were sent to the Kolyma gold fields.
The Solzhenitsyns will spend a few days in Vladivostok to meet local  people including fishermen and sailors of the Pacific fleet before boarding a  train across Siberia and the Ural Mountains.
No special security measures were planned, but local police forces will  ensure order during Solzhenitsyn's visits in the city, authorities told  ITAR-TASS in Moscow.
The Nobel Prize winning author was expelled from the Soviet Union on  February 13, 1974, after a night spent in Moscow's Lefortovo prison. The  catalyst was publication in France and the United States of his epic work "The  Gulag Archipelago," an account of his eight years in Soviet labor camps.
Solzhenitsyn authorized publication after learning that the secretary who  had typed the the manuscript had hanged herself following a lengthy  interrogation by the KGB.
The Soviet intelligence service had also obtained a copy of the work which  the secretary had secretly buried.
Solzhenitsyn was also stripped of his citizenship but it was restored in  1990. He was the first Soviet citizen to be expelled from the country since  Stalin's rival Leon Trotsky in 1929.
The Solzhenitsyns are accompanied by their youngest son, Stepan. Ignat  will remain in Vermont for the time being and the oldest son, Yermolai, will  meet his parents in Vladivostok, where he arrived on Wednesday from Seoul.  Yermolai lives in Taiwan.
Solzhenitsyn's expulsion and the loss of his Soviet citizenship were the  culmination of a long struggle with the authorities over his criticism of the  Soviet system, and especially its harsh treatment of dissidents.
Solzhenitsyn and his family first settled in Zurich, but soon moved to  Vermont, where the rural town of Cavendish zealously protected the Soviet  dissident's privacy.
It is expected to be several weeks before Solzhenitsyn actually arrives  back in Moscow, after travelling across Siberia and paying a visit to former  camps of the Gulag.
