The Jewish community and the press on Saturday united  in denouncing the police for incompetence in their handling of a  racist-inspired manhunt in the east German town of Magdeburg.
"I do not understand how this could have happened. It is a scandal that  the police did not manage to protect these people," the president of the  central council of Jews in German, Ignatz Bubis, told the daily Express in an  interview.
The Cologne daily, Koelnische Rundschau, reflected the sentiment of many  newspapers when it asked: "Who is in charge of patrolling Magdeburg? The  police or nightwatchmen?"
Last Thursday, Father's Day in Germany, when married and single men  traditionally indulge in drinking bouts, turned sour when gangs of skinheads  banded together to hunt down immigrants in the former East German town of  Magdeburg.
Around 50 youths, armed with sticks and knives, turned on a group of  Africans, before launching a full-scale manhunt through the streets. According  to police up to 150 youths took part in the incident, in which only three  people were injured.
Criticism of the local authorities has been all the harsher because the  local department of public prosecutions has since freed all but one of those  arrested.
"We cannot for the moment prove that they were involved," prosecutor  Rudolf Jaspers said on Saturday. "All those taken in for questioning  maintained that they were only spectators."
"It was like being back in the worst era of the SA (the main Nazi militia  up to 1934)," the government official responsible for immigrants and foreign  workers, Cornelia Schmalz-Jacobsen said, who saw the events in Magdeburg as a  "horrible climax" to the xenophobic violence, which has flared in Germany  since reunification.
"This manhunt marks a new level of violence," according to Klaus  Hurrelmann, a professor at the university of Bielefeld and expert on  extreme-right movements.
Since unification in 1990 dozens of people have been killed, victims of  right-wing violence ranging from attacks on immigrant hostels in Rostock to  arson attacks in Moelln and Solingen on the homes of Turks, in addition to  almost daily isolated assaults on foreigners.
"I cannot conceive how the police allowed these criminals to go after only  checking on their identities," said Bubis, who has often spoken out against  what he sees as laxity on the part of the authorities in dealing with the  extreme-right.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian Democratic Union, in response to public  outrage at seeking a band of skinheads attack foreigners in broad daylight  with impunity, has called an emergency meeting of the committee on legislation  in the lower house on Monday.
It is proposing that police be given powers to hold suspects in custody  for longer without pressing charges and for stiffer penalties for those  convicted of racist attacks.
But it could run into opposition from the Liberal FDP, which maintains  that existing legislation is sufficient as long as it is firmly implemented.
