Japan has offered economic aid to North Korea in  return for international inspections of its facilities suspected of building  nuclear bombs, Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata said Monday.
"It has been conveyed to them that if they opened their door, South Korea,  the United States, China and Japan could join hands and extend as much  cooperation as possible in raising living standards in North Korea," he told  the House of Representatives budget committee.
But Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa told the committee Japan was worried  about North Korea's refusal to allow the International Atomic Energy Agency  (IAEA) to sample fuel rods being removed from the Yongbyon nuclear reactor.
The UN Security Council was to discuss on Tuesday what to do in response  to North Korea's move. The IAEA has said Pyongyang is in violation of  safeguard rules under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).
The sampling of spent fuel rods is necessary to determine if weapons-grade  plutonium had been diverted from them in the past.
"We are concerned because it will become difficult in a few days to make  the verification if they go ahead (with refuelling) at the current pace," the  foreign minsiter said.
A top government spokesman said he was aware of press reports that North  Korea was preparing to test a missile that could hit Japan with a nuclear  warhead.
"I am aware of the information. But I would like to refrain from  commenting on what they might do," chief cabinet secretary Hiroshi Kumagai  told a press conference.
He said he was not certain if the projected test was linked to the nuclear  standoff.
In May last year, North Korea test-fired the Nodong-1 missile, which has a  range of 1,000 kilometers (625 miles), in the Sea of Japan.
The Yomiuri newspaper reported Saturday that the Japanese government  learned of the new launching plan from US satellite intelligence reports.  These indicated that trucks and cranes had arrived at a missile base in North  Korea and a number of survey ships to gauge the flight of missiles were  anchored offshore.
