China is to open its railways to foreign  management, offering preferential investment policies to help the backward  sector catch up with the demands of the booming economy, the China Daily said  Monday.
Under the new policies being drafted by the ministry of railways, foreign  investors will be permitted to set up and independently manage railway joint  ventures, which will be given greater freedom in setting prices than state-run  companies, the paper quoted a ministry official as saying.
At present, some 53,300 kilometres (32,860 miles) of track cover a  landmass of 9.6 million square kilometres (3.8 million square miles).
Railway officials blame the slow development of the industry on  artificially low state-set prices, which not only result in excess demand and  low revenues but also act as an obstacle to investment.
The system can now cope with only 68 percent of total freight needs, they  say, putting the losses to the Chinese economy caused by the gridlock at 500  billion yuan (57.4 billion dollars) last year and forecasting the sector  itself will lose 10 billion yuan in 1994.
An Shunyi, deputy head of the ministry's foreign capital and technical  import office, said the new joint ventures would be permitted a fairly wide  business scope, including authorisation for railside real estate developments,  to help balance foreign exchange.
"This will be a stimulus to foreign firms which are still hesitant to  invest in railways with huge input and lengthy construction periods," he said.
The official said China's booming coastal regions, where rail capacity is  stretched to its limits, would be targetted with several foreign investment  projects, but added that they would not be revealed for some months.
China announced plans last year to spend 600 million dollars on foreign  technology to upgrade the rail sector, aiming to expand total line length to  60,000 kilometres (37,200 miles) by 1995.
Experts say China's present needs total 100,000 kilometres of track.
