Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao's Congress (I)  Party was celebrating Monday its strong showing in parliamentary by-elections  as voters in India's most populous state prepared to go to the polls.
Congress candidates won five of the eight seats at stake in the Lok Sabha,  the lower house of parliament, in Thursday's by-elections. They also took five  of the 10 state assembly seats, according to results announced Sunday.
Several million voters in 12 states were eligible to cast their ballots in  the by-elections seen as the final popularity test ahead of full state  assembly polls later this year.
State assembly elections are to be held in Rao's home state, Andhra  Pradesh, Goa, Karnataka and Sikkim by November and in Arunachal Pradesh,  Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Manipur and Orissa by March of next year.
Voters in Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state with a population of  around 140 million, go to the polls Tuesday to fill six seats in the state  legislature.
The Congress performed dismally in state assembly elections in Uttar  Pradesh in November, finishing a distant fourth behind a Socialist Party  coalition, the right-wing Hindu revivalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP, Indian  People's Party) and the centrist Janata Dal (People's Party).
An improved showing in Uttar Pradesh is considered crucial if the  Congress, which has enjoyed virtually uninterrupted rule since independence  from Britain in 1947, hopes to retain power in general elections in 1996.
With the Uttar Pradesh elections still a day away, Congress leaders chose  Monday to focus on their impressive showing in the other by-elections.
Not even a drubbing suffered by Congress-backed candidates in the southern  Indian states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala could put a damper on the celebrations  at the Congress headquarters here.
Congress candidates scored comfortable victories in Lok Sabha by-elections  in Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Maharashtra, where two seats in  parliament were at stake. The wins boosted the ruling party's strength to 269  seats in the 544-seat lower house of parliament.
The BJP captured the Lok Sabha seat from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh while the  left-wing Revolutionary Socialist Party won the Lok Sabha state up for grabs   in Marxist-ruled West Bengal.
Vote-counting had still not been completed Monday from the by-election  held to fill a Lok Sabha vacancy from Vaishali in the eastern state of Bihar.
Before the vote, Congress leaders had sought to minimize the importance of  the by-elections. But they changed their tune after cruising to victory.
Railway Minister C.K. Jaffer Sharief said the results showed strong support  for the economic liberalization policies of Rao's three-year-old government.
"In a nutshell, the Congress victory is a vote for the peace, secularism  and stability which are essential for the country's economic development," he  said.
Human Resource Development Minister Arjun Singh described the Congress win  in his home state of Madhya Pradesh as a rejection of the "communal and narrow  political vision" of the Hindu nationalist BJP.
Among the Congress victors in Madhya Pradesh was Chief Minister Digvijay  Singh, who needed to win a seat in the state legislature to remain in office.
In Tamil Nadu, the AIADMK party of Chief Minister Jayalalitha Jayaram, a  film actress-turned-politician, grabbed two seats in the state assembly while  the Left Democratic Front won the state assembly seat at stake in Kerala.
