Police on Tuesday charged roadworker Ivan Robert  Milat, 49, with Australia's seven backpacker murders, five of them of foreign  tourists on hitchiking holidays.
Milat, arrested at his home nine days ago, was charged with the murders  after police found firing mechanisms from a Ruger rifle inside the wall cavity  of the house, a packed court was told here.
The remains of the seven young backpackers, two Britons, three Germans and  two Australians, were found in shallow graves in a forest south of here  between September 1992 and November 1993.
Prosecutor Ian Lloyd told the magistrate's court in suburban Campbelltown  that several items similar to those belonging to the backbackers had been  found at Milat's home and at the homes of two of his brothers.
Firing mechanisms including a trigger and bolt assemblies from a Ruger  10/22 rifle were also found along with a 25-shot magazine inside the wall  cavity of Milat's home in the southern Sydney suburb of Eagle Vale, Lloyd said.
Ballistic examinations had positively identified the bolt as being a  component of the firearm which discharged the cartridges found at the scene of  two of the murders.
Milat, who had shaved off his moustache and had a haircut since his first  court appearance eight days ago, showed no emotion during the 15-minute  hearing in which he made no plea and bail was formally refused.
But his counsel John Marsden said Milat strongly denied the serious  allegations against him.
Milat was originally charged with armed robbery and firearm offenses.
But police laid the other charges Tuesday following week-long searches of  several properties in Sydney and the Southern Highlands area.
Detectives from Task Force Air, set up to investigate the deaths of the  seven tourists, initially charged another two men -- aged 42 and 38 -- with  firearm and drug-related offences. They were bailed to appear in Moss Vale  Court on June 26.
The court heard that English hitchhikers, Joanne Walters and Caroline  Clarke, both aged 22, were murdered on or about April 18, 1992, and their  bodies were found in September of that year.
Australian backpackers James Gibson and Deborah Everist, both 19, are  alleged to have been killed about December 30, 1989, but their bodies were not  found until October 1993.
The remains of 20-year-old German Simone Schmidl, who left Sydney in  January to hitchhike along the Hume Highway to Melbourne, was found in  November 1993.
Then three days later, the bodies of Gabor Neugebauer and his German  girlfriend, Anja Habschied, were found nearby.
They had disappeared from Sydney's Kings Cross on December 26, 1991, and  had planned to hitchhike from Sydney to Darwin.
Lloyd told Tuesday's hearing: "Ballistic examinations postively identified  the bolt as being a component of the firearm which discharged the cartridges  found at the Clarke-Walters and Neugebauer-Habschied murder scenes.
"There was evidence that Walters had been sexually assaulted."
Outside the court, Marsden told reporters: "The media and publicity hype  that has occurred over the last two weeks is prejudicing my clients right to a  fair and just trial.
"I do not in any way intend to minimise the horrific nature of the  allegations against my client. However, in fairness to my client, who is not  guilty, who has not been proven guilty, who only today has been charged, the  media should allow my client a fair and just trial."
