European foreign ministers agreed Friday on measures  aimed at preventing border conflicts in eastern Europe and solving problems  over ethnic minorities.
The 53 delegations meeting at UNESCO headquarters here agreed unanimously  to set up two regional roundtables, one dealing with the problems of Russian  minorities in the three Baltic states, and the other with Hungarian minorities  in Slovakia and Romania.
Russia reacted ambiguously, with the conference seen as an attempt to  extend EU influence in areas once ruled by the former Soviet Union.
Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, addressing fellow ministers,  welcomed the planned pact, but warned it might conflict with the Conference on  Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
Accords reached at the roundtables will be enshrined in a Stability Pact  which could be signed early in 1995 and registered with the CSCE.
The two-day meeting, which opened Thursday, was the brainchild of French  Prime Minister Edouard Balladur. It was sponsored by France and the European  Union to defuse potential conflicts among would-be candidates to the European  Union from eastern and central Europe and the Baltic region.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe denied at a press conference that the  stability conference was duplicating existing organisations such as the CSCE.
The stability conference was "filling a vacuum" and was "not a CSCE  mark-2, nor another Council of Europe nor a Western European Union," Juppe  said.
The foreign minister said that the CSCE had not undertaken any action on  behalf of the Hungarian minorities, for example, and that it was the special  interest of the EU to sponsor efforts to solve the problems of future members.
Juppe hailed the conference as "a great success," but insisted that "the  essential remains to be done" in preparing accords to be slotted into the  Stability Pact.
He said the conference would disappear "within a year" when the pact was  inaugurated.
One of 10 countries listed as a potential new member -- Slovenia -- was  dropped in the final draft of potential new members, leaving Bulgaria, Czech  Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Slovakia.
The move illustrated that some existing EU members also have minority  problems. Officially Slovenia was removed because it has no association  agreement with the EU, but Slovenian conference sources said the new Italian  government had applied pressure on behalf of the 3,0O0-strong Slovenian  minority in Italy agitating to recover their property in Slovenia.
The conference turned down a plea by Hungarian Foreign Minister Geza  Jeszensky for direct participations by 1.6 million Hungarian-speakers in  Romania and 600,000 in Slovakia in its regional roundtable.
Budapest is anxious to protect their rights to autonomy, notably in the  cultural field, while the Romanian and Slovakian governments are seeking  Hungarian acceptance of the inviolability of existing borders.
Kozyrev insisted the focus should be "to concentrate on specific steps to  improve inter-ethnic relations and to ensure the rights of national  minorities. This is especially necessary for the three Baltic states --  Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania," he added.
He said discussion of border and minority issues "should take place  exclusively in the framework established by CSCE documents."
But the tone of the conference was set on Thursday by Balladur and German  Chancellor Helmut Kohl. In a joint opinion column in the daily Le Monde, the  two leaders proposed that the would-be EU members be invited to attend union  summit meetings.
