A cocktail of "big oil" and diplomatic intrigue in  the war-torn republic of Azerbaijan has lent the capital Baku a conspiratorial  atmosphere straight out of a spy novel.
After tortuous negotiations with three governments in as many years, the  western consortium wanting to develop Azerbaijan's offshore oil reserves  claims a production-sharing agreement will be signed in August.
Western diplomatic sources in Baku said Azerbaijan had in fact hoped to  sign a contract this week.
Hurting after six years of war over the disputed Armenian-populated  enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh and the collapse of economic ties with the former  Soviet Union, Azerbaijan desperately needs oil revenues to rebuild its  shattered economy.
But western consortium members -- headed by British Petroleum and Statoil,  the consortium also comprises Amoco, Pennzoil Co/Ramco Oil Services, Unocal  Corp, McDermott and the Turkish Petroleum Company -- have reservations which  they want to clear up at the next round of negotiations in Istanbul in June.
In a speech at the opening of an international oil conference in Baku  Tuesday, Azerbaijani President Geidar Aliyev underlined the republic's  determination to win for itself the best possible deal.
But he also sought to reassure the consortium that it stands to benefit  from developing the estimated 4.4 billion barrels of oil from the Chirag and  Azeri offshore fields on the Caspian shelf.
"We are taking very important ... steps in preserving the interests of  Azerbaijan but the western (oil) companies will also benefit," Aliyev said.
Howard Chase, a spokesman for British Petroleum, told AFP: "Things are  moving now and the contract should be tied up by August - this is clearly what  the president signalled."
According to a source at the state oil company SOCAR, the Azerbaijani  partner in the Caspian Sea project, the main sticking point continues to be  the production sharing agreement.
The source said the Azerbaijani side is holding out for 85 percent of  production, while last December's deadline for an agreement lapsed as the  consortium would only go to 80 percent.
But while the mood of the consortium has turned from one of deep pessimism  earlier this year to guarded optimism, talk at the Universal restaurant, the  oilmen's principal watering hole in Baku, centres on "the Russians."
Russian political pressure on Azerbaijan impinged on the consortium at the  beginning of the year in the guise of Russian oil major Lukoil, which took  over the development of the rich Guneshli field, originally part of the  Caspian Sea project.
"Look what happened to Georgia when it tried to resist Russian influence -  Russia is a worry," a consortium source confided.
The SOCAR source concurred: "Lukoil's involvement is not good for  Azerbaijan - it's a political move," he said.
And with many political observers claiming that Aliyev, damaged by his  dual failure to resolve the Karabakh issue and to mend fences with the  Russians, has only weeks left in power, the contract could yet again fall foul  of Azerbaijani political turmoil.
The consortium has survived three changes of government but regional  instability, which has already prevented any decision on the most reliable  route to lay a pipeline to export the crude oil, will continue to cast a  shadow over the eight billion dollar project.
