A 19-member new government for Togo was announced  Wednesday, in which presidential supporters will hold most key posts.
Prime Minister Edem Kodjo, who was elected on an opposition ticket, chose  18 ministers and one secretary of state (junior minister), a presidential  decree announced.
The defence, foreign affairs and interior portfolios all went to allies of  President Gnassingbe Eyadema who has held power since 1967 and whose military  supporters have persistently blocked democratic reforms.  Eyadema supporters  hold eight portfolios in all.
Kodjo's own party, the Togolese Union for Democracy (UTD), is represented  in the new government but not the biggest opposition party, the Action  Committee for Renewal (CAR) of Yao Agboyibo.
In legislative elections in February, the UTD and CAR alliance won 39 out  of 78 seats (eds correct) filled in the national assembly.  Three more have  still to be filled but by-elections have been postponed.
The CAR, which won six times as many seats as the UTD, refused to  participate in the new government because Eyadema picked Kodjo rather than  Agboyibo for prime minister.
But Kodjo told AFP late Wednesday that the door was still open for the CAR.
"If it decided to participate there would be a ministerial reshuffle which  would enable it to accept the posts attributed to it," he said.
The current government "is not perhaps that which we would have liked but  the expectations and sufferings of the people obliged it to be formed," Kodjo  said in a broadcast speech.
Calling for "a union of all forces of democracy and goodwill" to bring  about national reconciliation and economic recovery, he said he intended the  government's policy to follow the UTD-CAR manifesto, which he would submit to  a parliamentary vote.
However Agboyibo accused Kodjo of deceiving the people by claiming to have  a parliamentary majority.
He said the president's men held eight portolios, "independents" eight  more and UTD members only three.
The composition of the government reflected the source of the support  Kodjo would be seeking, Agboyibo said.
