Ukrainian lawmakers suspended the constitution of  independance-leaning Crimea, parliamentary sources said, after Crimean  deputies earlier adopted a basic law tantamount to a declaration of  independence from Kiev.
In the closed-session vote Ukrainian deputies gave the pro-Russian Crimean  assembly 10 days to "conform with the laws and constitution of Ukraine."
The text, presented by President Leonid Kravchuk, did not say what  measures the Kiev parliament would take against the Simferopol legislature if  it failed to reverse its decision.
Lawmakers in the predominantly Russian-populated republic voted  overwhelmingly Friday in favor of restoring a 1992 constitution that  establishes treaty relations between Kiev and Crimea, allows for Crimean  citizenship and provides for the establishment of a local militia force.
The vote came despite a warning from Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk  that Kiev "has enough power to force respect" of Ukrainian sovereignty.
Presenting the law Kravchuk condemned the Crimean deputies' vote as "a  step towards Crimea's separation from Ukraine."
But Crimean deputies voted 60-to-three in a resolution Friday that "no  article in the constitution represents a violation of the territorial  integrity of Ukraine and a revision of (its) borders."
Relations with Ukraine would be "based on treaties," Crimean deputies  said, adding that under article three of the new constitution "the republic of  Crimea is a constituent part of the state of Ukraine."
In Moscow, Russian President Boris Yeltsin said he had warned Kravchuk to  refrain from using force against the secessionist republic and that the  Ukrainian leader had assured him he would not inflame the situation, the  Interfax agency reported.
"There cannot be in any instance any forceful actions undertaken against  Crimea," Yeltsin said he told Kravchuk in a telephone conversation Thursday  dealing with Friday's planned vote on the constitution.
"Crimea is a sovereign republic within Ukraine and has the right to its  own political stand and the right to make its own decision", he said.
Yeltsin stressed that Russia as well as central authorities in Kiev should  not meddle in Crimean affairs, saying that "neither we, nor Urkaine" have the  right to intervene.
Meanwhile, the command of the disputed Black Sea fleet, which has its home  base in the Crimean port city of Sevastopol, called on both sides to seek a  political settlement to the crisis.
In a statement released by the press service, the fleet command warned  that "should the situation develop in any way, the Black Sea fleet will not be  able to remain on the sidelines of the process going on around it."
"The command of the fleet calls on all those involved in the actual events  in Crimea to do everything possible to resolve contentious issues by political  means," the statement said.
Crimea -- a republic of 2.5 million residents, 67 percent of whom are  ethnic Russians -- has been moving towards closer ties with Moscow since the  January election of Russian nationalist Yuri Meshkov to the presidency.
The Crimean peninsula was part of Russia up until former Soviet leader  Nikita Krushchev handed over the territory to Ukraine in 1954 as a "gift"  celebrating the friendship between the two Slav peoples.
