The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation is moving  towards a consensus that Russia should be offered a special partnership with  the alliance, German Defence Minister Volker Ruehe said here Tuesday.
Speaking at a meeting of NATO defence ministers, he said the arrangement  would be separate from the partnership-for-peace programme (PFP) for military  cooperation between NATO and countries of the former Soviet bloc.
Insiders at the meeting spoke of the general conviction that closer  relations between Moscow and NATO were essential to European military security  and balance.
But they stressed that these links would not be at the expense of eastern  Europe and would never result in the division of Europe into NATO and Russian  zones of influence as feared in some eastern European capitals.
Ruehe said NATO had not yet agreed which issues should be included in the  special partnership with Russia, beyond the principle that it should comprise  a "general dialogue on political and security issues."
But he reported agreement on the inclusion of one topic -- how to control  the spread of nuclear weapons -- although he said the United States was  opposed to including other issues of nuclear cooperation.
Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev was due to join the meeting at 1600  GMT to outline Moscow's conditions for signing PFP, which has already been  joined by 16 countries of the former Warsaw Pact.
NATO is pressing Russia to join the partnership. But Moscow has been  pushing for a special political relationship with the alliance which reflects  its big-power status and goes beyond PFP military cooperation.
Grachev was expected to convey the insistence of Russian President Boris  Yeltsin that such links should be formalised in writing.
NATO has reacted cautiously, particularly because eastern European members  of the PFP are alarmed that it could lead to Russian influence on alliance  decisions involving Europe.
The United States has ruled out any formal commitment to special  NATO-Moscow links, although US officials say they favour a gradual evolution  in such links, particularly if Russia joins the PFP.
"PFP is the key which unlocks the door," a NATO source said, adding that  NATO-Russia relations were bound to slow down if Moscow did not join the  partnership.
No NATO decision was expected on Tuesday, since the decision is a  political one which must be decided by a NATO council of foreign ministers.
However, Ruehe said there was consensus among the defence ministers that  NATO needed to meet the Russians halfway.
He said Moscow would never be allowed a veto right over such decisions as  bringing eastern European countries into NATO as full members.
Several PFP members, particularly Poland and Hungary, have made it clear  they see the partnership as a halfway house to full NATO membership, a  position which has been received with hostility in Moscow.
However, the German minister said: "If other countries have the  possibility to join NATO as real members and Russia cannot, we must give the  Russians something else."
Apart from nuclear non-proliferation, other issues under consideration for  inclusion in a NATO-Russian partnership are the conflict in Bosnia-Hercegovina  and peace-keeping in the former Soviet republics.
Meanwhile, US Defence Secretary William Perry called for a rapid deepening  of the PFP.
He urged NATO countries to boost defence planning, and to help the former  Warsaw Pact members pay for their participation in military and peace-keeping  exercises under the PFP.
The US defence secretary added: "We have before us a historic opportunity  to build a new trans-Atlantic security system that will ensure peace and  stability in all of Europe well into the next century."
