Secretary of State Warren Christopher and his  Israeli counterpart Shimon Peres on Wednesday urged Palestine Liberation  Organization chief Yasser Arafat to reaffirm support for the Mideast peace  process.
The demand was sparked by Arafat's call in Johannesburg for a holy war to  liberate Jerusalem. He later said he had used the word "jihad" in its  religious -- not political -- sense.
Asked about the controversial comment, Christopher said Wednesday that it  would be "very helpful to have a reaffirmation" of Arafat's support for the  peace process.
"Commitments have been made. It's very important that they be lived up  to," he said. "We do need to work in an atmosphere of mutual trust."
Peres urged the PLO chief to make a "clear statement" reaffirming three  points: that he remains behind the historic declaration of principles signed  in Washington, that he renounces violence and that he believes that diplomatic  resolutions are always possible to resolve disputes between the PLO and Israel.
"The more this would be repeated, the better," he said.
Christopher said that he would discuss the problem with Peres and awaited  his comments on the issue.
Peres met with Arafat in Oslo shortly after he made the controversial holy  war remarks in South Africa. Asked about Arafat's assertion that he did not  mean to encourage violence, Peres was noncommittal.
He also described as "irrelevant, unimportant and unnecessary" Arafat's  decision to revoke some Israeli laws in the newly autonomous Gaza Strip and  the West Bank town of Jericho.
Peres said that he would take up implementation of the autonomy agreement  with Christopher, particularly the financial problems that the Palestinians  are expected to face and peace talks between Israel and Syria.
The Israeli foreign minister took a tough line when it came to Syria in  comments Wednesday.
"You can't expect Israelis to adopt the limitations of the Syrian way of  negotiating," he said, rebuking Damascus for pushing for such major  concessions as Israel's withdrawal from the Golan Heights before trade and  diplomatic ties are resumed.
"Normalisation begins with the negotiation," he said.
Christopher's recent swing through the Middle East did little to close the  gap between Israel and Syria, even though the secretary of state has been  acting as an intermediary.
Israel has proposed a phased withdrawal from the Golan Heights it has  occupied since 1967 but said that normalized relations must be the first step.  "They (Syrians) say peace without embassies and open frontiers," said Peres.
Asked to assess progress thus far in bringing peace to the troubled Middle  East, Peres said, "More than it used to be in the past, less than it is needed  for the future."
