Italian markets reflected skepticism Thursday that  businessman-turned-premier Silvio Berlusconi will be able to implement his  radical free-market economic recovery program.
Berlusconi who scraped through a Senate confidence motion by a single vote  Wednesday will enter a 100-day trial period Friday -- when the lower house  votes on his government -- with pledges to launch an economic package to  create one million new jobs by the end of 1996 and cut government spending.
Opposition parties have said that his economic program was "vague and  empty" but Berlusconi rejected their criticism saying the Senate was not the  place to expose details of his sweeping plans.
There would be concrete steps but their effect would not necessarily be  immediate, he said.
The lira remained stable against all major currencies Thursday but the  MIBTEL index at the Milan bourse plunged 2.06 percent to 12,536 a day after  the Senate vote.
Dealers adopted a wait-and-see attitude after the cliffhanger vote on  Berlusconi's concervative team, which showed that government projects could  easily run into Senate opposition and may need drawn-out negotiations to pass.
However Berlusconi may resort to government decrees to impose economic  changes in line with a policy adopted by previous governments.
Industrialist Franco De Benedetti, senator for the center-left Democratic  Alliance and brother of Olivetti chief Carlo De Benedetti, warned there was a  risk that Berlusconi's cabinet would be riven between those who favor a strong  central government and the pro-federalists, between the interests of big  business and small enterprises.
A key point in Berlusconi's program are tax cuts for small and  medium-sized companies and those which reinvest profits to create jobs, and  decisions may be announced shortly.
State companies are also expected to be privatized quickly and sell-offs  are expected to replenish government coffers with 50 billion dollars,  according to Finance Minister Lamberto Dini.
The list of companies up for privatization includes INA (insurances), STET  (telecommunications), ENEL (electricity) and ENI (oil). Dini said the  government would also withdraw from state holdings, notably the IRI group, and  sell off Alitalia, the iron and steel company Ilva and Finmeccanica.
"We must speed up privatizations," Ennio Presutti, president of the  Lombard employers' association Assolombarda, said Thursday, reflecting the  private sector's impatience with Berlusconi.
In a bid to soothe fears voiced by savers, Berlusconi also said that the  government debt would not be passed on to them. Treasury bonds would also  remain safe, he added.
