Authorities clamped a one-month state of alert  Saturday on the breakaway Russian Caucasus republic of Chechnya after bombers  failed in an attempt to assassinate President Dzhokar Dudayev.
Dudayev emerged unhurt from a car-bomb attack near the capital Grozny in  which his interior minister and deputy as well as their driver were killed, a  presidential spokesman said. Sunday was declared a day of mourning.
A spokesman for Dudayev stressed that an examination of debris from the  attack showed the explosives involved were "of the same kind as those used by  the Russian secret service in operations of sabotage and terrorism," but shied  away from directly implicating Moscow.
Dudayev himself blamed dissidents opposed to the slight thaw in relations  between Chechnya and Moscow since the row he sparked by declaring Chechnya's  independence in November 1991, according to the Russian news agency ITAR-TASS,  monitored in London by the BBC.
ITAR-TASS said Dudayev had told local television the blast was a  "carefully organised act of sabotage."
And Chechnya's premier Yaragi Mamodayev called for an end to violence,  ITAR-TASS said.
"The government of national confidence resolutely condemns such actions  ... and appeals to the leaders of the regime, to all socio-political forces  and to the citizens of the republic for nationwide reconciliation and an end  to all forms of confrontation," he said.
The cabinet of the Moslem republic met in emergency session after the  attack to agree on the curfew's imposition.
Spokesman Movladi Udugov said a remote-controlled booby-trapped Zhiguli  car exploded as the president's motorcade was passing late Friday.
Dudayev's Interior Minister Magomed Eldiyev, his deputy Said Ali Bateyev   and their driver were killed, Udugov said. They were travelling in the first  vehicle of the motorcade. Dudayev was in the second car, which was jolted by  the blast.
Dudayev was returning to the Chechen capital from his native village of  Zakan-Yurt, some 20 kilometres (12 miles) away, when the bomb went off.
Two days earlier, Dudayev had put his armed forces on alert, warning of "an  attempt by Moscow to expand the implementation of a state of emergency" along  Chechnya's border with Ingushetia "in the regions of Sunzha and Malgobek."
Chechnya, where even basic products are in short supply, is a mafia hotbed.
Three months ago, key opposition member General Ibragim Suleimenov called  for Dudayev's resignation and for "air strikes on the republic's  installations." He was arrested and jailed two days later.
Dudayev refused to sign the Russian Federation Treaty and the republic  boycotted Russian polls last December. Moscow responded with an economic  blockade.
Dudayev also imposed a previous curfew after about 1,000 armed opponents  gathered in Grozny's main square. Amid the continuing standoff with Moscow,  Dudayev had periodically put the Chechen security forces on alert, a move he  repeated on Thursday.
Despite the resumption of bilateral talks in March, Chechnya and Russia  remain at odds, with Gronzy several times accusing Moscow's secret services of  provocation.
In March 1993, Chechen authorities said Russia masterminded the killing of  two of Dudayev's advisors in London. One Armenian was eventually convicted of  the killings.
