The candidates of Colombia's two traditional  parties sought alliances Monday to win a run-off June 19, putting the left in  the best position to gain from the virtual tie in the first round of  presidential elections.
Liberal Party candidate Ernesto Samper led Conservative rival Andres  Pastrana by the narrowest of margins -- 45.2 percent to 44.9 percent -- with  less than three percent of the vote left to be counted.
The results confirmed the Liberal and Conservative parties in their  traditionally dominant role, but added a new wrinkle by forcing the leaders  into a run-off for the first time in the country's history.
Complicating the picture was a 67 percent absenteeism rate in Sunday's  elections, almost as high as the record 70 percent reached in legislative  elections in March.
The abstention rate could be even higher during the second round because  it will coincide with the World Cup championships in soccer, the national  pastime in Colombia, whose team is expected to do well.
Three World Cup matches are scheduled to be played June 19, and the  Colombian team will have played the day before.
"It is believed that the euphoria over the triumphs of the Colombian team  will make all interest in the second round disappear," the newspaper El  Espectador wrote.
Since neither Samper nor Pastrana won more than 50 percent of the vote,  they will be competing for support from the losers in Sunday's elections, in  which 18 candidates ran for president.
The candidate most likely to benefit was Antonio Navarro, of the leftist  M-19, who had been staring into the jaws of a crushing electoral defeat.
Navarro's third place finish with only 3.8 percent of the vote was a major  reversal for the former guerrilla, who had made a stunning debut in the 1990  presidential election.
The M-19, which gave up the armed struggle in March 1990, had previously  been devastated by March legislative elections, failing to win a seat in the  Senate and winning only nine seats in the lower house.
But in an interview with a local radio station Monday, Navarro said he had  been contacted both by Samper and Pastrana about the second round. Navarro  said he had made no decision yet.
Samper, 43, appeared most inclined to seek the support of the left. He  advocates a go-slow policy toward privatizations of state enterprises and  programs aimed at generating more jobs.
Analysts believed that Pastrana, 39, would seek the support he needs to win  from the huge pool of absentee voters. He champions free-market economic  policies that might be difficult for the left to embrace.
