The United States said Tuesday that North  Korea's refueling of a nuclear energy facility in defiance of international  inspectors could jeopardize any basis for talks between Pyongyang and  Washington on normalizing relations.
The White House underlined US concerns after the International Atomic  Energy Agency (IAEA) said Pyongyang had accelerated the pace of removing fuel  rods at a facility, which could make it impossible to determine whether  plutonium had been diverted to weapons purposes.
Spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said new talks sought by Pyongyang on helping  North Korea's economy could be suspended if the communist regime persists in  its defiance of inspectors.
"We said that there would be no obstacles to continuing a third round (of  talks) if the North Koreans first completed the March inspections, and second,  allowed the refueling to take place in a way that did not break the continuity  of safeguards," said Myers.
State Department spokesman Michael McCurry offered a similar analysis of  the situation.
"At any point that the IAEA notifies us that there's no longer an ability  to understand the operating history of the reactor, that has been effectively  destroyed, the premise for our dialogue with North Korea will simlarly have  been destroyed," said McCurry.
President Bill Clinton and his South Korean counterpart Kim Young-Sam  spoke by telephone for about 20 minutes Monday to reaffirm their support for a  UN Security Council message urging North Korea to allow a resumption of  inspections.
Myers added that even if the IAEA determined that weapons-grade plutonium  may have diverted, Washington consult with the UN Security Council.
"At that point the question will go back to the Security Council where  we've said we'll work with the other members and expect to take this step by  step," she said.
Pentagon spokeswoman Kathleen Delaski expressed "grave concern" over North  Korea's recent actions and said the United States was readying contingency  measures to boost its defensive capabilities on the Korean peninsula if needed.
"It is not necessarily adding more troops to Korea. It's more being ready  to improve our readiness so that we can reinforce rapidly," she said without  elaborating.
The United States has some 38,000 troops stationed in South Korea and has  dispatched a battery of Patriot missiles to Seoul to counter a threat from the  North, which has said it would consider UN sanctions an act of war.
US Senator Sam Nunn, head of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said  North Korea must realize that the United States and its allies are serious  about keeping controls on nuclear technology in Korea.
"North Korea has to realize this is not an area that America is going to  back down," said Nunn in a television interview.
And he warned that if the crisis sparked a war North Korea would be  crushed.
"North Korea would be devastated and I think that regime would be  completely destroyed if there was a war," said the senator.
North Korea has protested that any attempt to impose sanctions on them  would be taken as an act of war.
Nunn said Russia, Japan and China would have to play key roles in  convincing North Korea to allow full inspections of their nuclear sites.
"The international community has got to join together and say to the North  Koreans,'You must be part of this overall international cooperative effort,'"  said Nunn.
North Korea maintains its nuclear program has only peaceful ends, but the  United States has suspected it is producing weapons.
