Nobel literature laureate Alexander  Solzhenitsyn arrived in the far eastern port of Vladivostok Friday after 20  years in exile from his Russian homeland.
The author of "The Gulag Archipegalo," his epic chronicle of the Soviet  labour camp system, and "A Day In The Life Of Ivan Denisovich," set foot in  Russia earlier in the day during a stopover at the far eastern city of  Magadan, a former processing centre for the Soviet-era Siberian labour camps.
Solzhenitsyn, flying in from Anchorage, Alaska, is due to stay a few days  in Vladivostok before spending several weeks travelling across Russia to take  up residence in a dacha outside Moscow.
Solzhenitsyn, 77, who has lived the life of a recluse in the US state of  Vermont, was welcomed home by Magadan's mayor Nikolai Kartenko, flanked by  girls bearing flowers and traditional bread and salt.
He made a stopover here of about 15 minutes on his way to the far eastern  port of Vladivostok, and was also due to stop in far eastern Khabarovsk.
After alighting from the aircraft, Solzhenitsyn twice touched the ground  in what he said was a tribute to the "hundreds of thousands, even millions" of  people who died in the Siberian camps for which Magadan served as a processing  centre.
"According to ancient Christian tradition, the land where innocent martyrs  are buried becomes a holy land, and for that it shall be honoured," he said.
"These victims today are easily forgotten, both by those who have not been  affected by the destruction and by those who carried out that destruction. The  roots of our self-destruction come from there," he said.
Solzhenitsyn also spoke briefly with former labour camp prisoners who  still live in Magadan.
He smiled and accepted the gifts they brought him which included a  recording of poetry by a former dissident poet and a picture.
The former camp inmates said they were sorry Solzhenitsyn had not stayed a  few hours at Magadan so he could have visited the Gulag museum or laid a  wreath at a memorial to the millions of political prisoners jailed in the  Soviet era.
Before leaving Anchorage on his journey which will end in Moscow after a  train journey through Russia, Solzhenitsyn said that he planned to take "an  active part in the social life of Russia. And as my voice will be heard, I  would like to have some influence on Russia's health."
Speaking through a translator, he said he was leaving the United States  "with much emotion. I never dreamed this would be possible. This was my host  country, giving me the most productive period of my life," he said.
Soviet authorities expelled the writer in 1974 because his novels exposed  the darker side of Soviet society by focusing on life as a political prisoner.  He earlier served eight years in prison camps for criticizing Stalin in a  letter to a friend.
He went to the United States in 1976 after spending two years in Europe,  eventually settling in rural Vermont.
He is scheduled to deliver an address in Vladivostok from a rostrum  erected in the central square under the Soviet emblem which still adorns the  massive facade of city hall.
