Neal Lancaster won the biggest sudden death  playoff in the history of the PGA Tour Sunday, beating five other players to  win the weather-shortened Byron Nelson Classic.
Lancaster claimed the first victory of his five-year Tour career with a  four-foot birdie putt at the first extra hole.
He triumphed over David Edwards, David Ogrin, Japan's Yoshi Mizumaki, Tom  Byrum and Mark Carnevale. All were nine-under par after 36 holes in the  rain-plagued event.
It was the first time six players had reached a playoff, although there  have been seven five-man playoffs in the history of the Tour.
Though the event was shortened to 36 holes -- the lowest possible to  qualify as a complete event -- Lancaster reaps all the benefits of victory, a  place in the World Series of Golf, next year's Masters, and the full winner's  purse of 216,000 dollars.
Lancaster birdied every hole he played Sunday -- his final two  second-round holes and the playoff hole.
He was on the course when thunderstorms stopped play Saturday, and started  Sunday morning with a 60-foot birdie putt at 17. He birdied the next for a  second-round 65.
Then he waited three hours for the rest of the field to complete the  second round.
"The whole thing this week was patience," he said. "I waited for 40  minutes waiting for the horn to sound before I played 17. Then I had another  three hours waiting for the playoff."
At the playoff hole, Edwards drove into the gallery and picked up his ball  after four shots.
Mizumaki and Ogrin hit short irons to between 30 and 20 feet. Byrum missed  the green and Carnevale and Lancaster both got their second shots within six  feet.
Byrum missed his chip, Mizumaki left his long putt short and Ogrin's putt  dribbled right.
Carnevale's putt lipped out, leaving Lancaster to sink his winning birdie  putt.
"I was actually shaking," he said. "After he had missed his short one, I  knew I could miss, too.
"The good thing about the putt was that it was downhill. I could shake it  in. If it had been uphill, I would never have made it."
bb94
