Flamboyant soccer boss and self-made millionaire  Bernard Tapie accused opponents Saturday of trying to use a string of legal  and financial problems to wreck his European parliament election campaign.
Speaking on the private TF1 television channel Tapie denied he had  breached agreements with his bank, the troubled state-owned Credit Lyonnais,  on the repayments of loans totalling 180 million dollars, of which 61 million  dollars are due immediately.
The appearance by Tapie, president of the recently relegated football club  Olympique Marseille, came after the bank Friday sent bailiffs to his chic left  bank Paris home to assess a collection of 18th century French furniture,  paintings and works of art.
In a communique the bank said a March 13 agreement with Tapie for  rescheduling of his debt, with a mortgage on his property, had lapsed.
But an angry Tapie hit back saying: "I spend all my time justifying myself  against attacks levelled against me at an increasing rate, which leads me to  think that people don't want me to to make it to the 12th" (of June).
Tapie, a deputy for the Movement of Radicals of the Left (MRG), heads a  left-wing list to the European parliament in elections on June 12 credited in  the polls with at least 10 percent of the votes.
He said it was up to court authorities to decide whether he or the bank  was in the right.
Credit Lyonnais refused to comment Tapie's interview.
The deputy also predicted that his parliamentary immunity from prosecution  would be lifted for a third time, condemning the "organised" nature of the  attacks against him.
"Last week it was the boat, this week its the furniture, next weeek,  Thursday or Friday, it will be a request for the lifting of my parliamentary  immunity. In the space of nine months that will be the third time," he said.
The tycoon was referring to a customs prosecution concerning his luxury  yacht the Phocea.
Tapie has had his immunity lifted to face embezzlement charges in the case  of one of his companies, the weighing machine firm Testut, and has been  indicted for fraud and embezzlement in the accounting of Olympique Marseille.
He has further been charged with complicity in corruption and suborning  witnesses in a match-fixing case involving Marseille and the northern team  Valenciennes.
The case prompted football authorities to relegate Marseille.
