Jim Courier, who has lost only one match at Roland  Garros in the last three years, may have slipped down to seventh in the  seedings -- but that's fine by him.
"Where I am in a draw is all the same to me. I am going to have to play  seven matches if I am going to hold the cup up at the end," the 23-year-old  American said.
"There are 128 guys in the draw and we have got 128 guys that on any given  day can knock off anybody.
"I'm never really surprised when there are upsets in tennis."
The 6ft 1in (1m85) player from Dade City, Florida, may be more relaxed  these days. But he insists he's still a workaholic.
"I am working just as hard and I'm doing everything I need to do on  court," said the 1991 and 1992 champion who once kept the world's press  waiting for an hour because he felt he needed more practice after a  particularly easy win.
"But it's true that I'm having more fun and I'm less clenched up all the  time. It's certainly nicer to be relaxed. I don't know how it happened -- it  just did... a couple of months ago.
"I guess I decided I was tired of being an angry young man any more."
That doesn't mean that Courier, who is still under the wing of crafty  Spanish coach and former player Jose Higueras, can't get mean and angry on  court.
In his win over Stefano Pescosolido of Italy late Wednesday when he  reached the third round he exploded several times over line calls.
"I still have plenty of anger and fire down inside," he said, admitting:  "Yeah -- I was a little pissed off by the calls. But a little anger is good  sometimes. It gets the fires burning."
Courier, who plays 22-year-old Swede Jonas Bjorkman, ranked just outside  the top-100, in the next round, is just two matches away from what could be an  explosive quarter-final with Pete Sampras.
Sampras, who took over the number-one ranking from Courier in April last  year, has beaten the former champion twice this year -- at Key Biscayne and at  the Australian Open.
But Courier is adamant. There is now way he is going to lose a third  consecutive time -- especially on his favourite surface.
Although he admits the challenge can come from anywhere these days.
"There's a handful of good young players coming up right now," he said.  "It's been a few years since it happened but it comes about every once in a  while."
He rated Andrei Medvedev and Russian Yevgeny Kafelnikov and Spaniards  Alberto Berasategui and Alberto Costa as very good prospects.
He also picked out 18-year-old world junior champion Marcelo Rios of Chile  who put Sampras through his paces in three tight sets in the second round.
Rios, whose shoulder-length hair sprays out from under a cap and who has a  stud in his right ear, admits to being an unconditional Andre Agassi fan.
Courier, who was a fellow-junior with Agassi at Nick Bollettieri's Academy  said: "He looks a terrific young player. I glanced up at a television coming  on court and .... it's terrible to say this... but I though it was a girl.
"But don't tell him I said that. He'll probably be out looking for me."
