higher. Copper rose sharply in the early part of the week, lifing  60 dollars from the Friday close to a 16-month closing high on Tuesday at  2,297 dollars per tonne, but dropped later in the week on profit-taking to  around 2,250 dollars per tonne.
Dealers said copper has very firm fundamentals with regular drawdowns in  stocks and increases in demand in Europe and the United States.
Concern about earthquake damage at Freeport Indonesia's Grasberg copper  mine had helped push the metal up late Tuesday and on Wednesday, but the  company quickly scotched fears of any damage.
Australian geologists said they had recorded an earthquake measuring 6.7  on the Richter scale in the highlands of Irian Jaya, the site of the copper  mine.
Traders at GNI predicted that on current levels, a supply deficit of  around 375,000 tonnes could be seen this year, enough to provide support to  prices on any dip, and possible drive them up to around 2,600 dollars per  tonne.
Weekly stocks on the LME fell a further 12,725 tonnes to 387,000 tonnes.
LEAD: stable. The price of lead ended the week little changed from the  previous Friday close at 495 dollars per tonne, but rose higher mid-week in  line with soaring copper and nickel prices.
Cominco said it was closing its 27,800 tonnes per year plant in Bixby,  Montana, north-west America. Dealers said that although the company was trying  to make up for lost production by increasing output at Red Dog, it was  unlikely to totally eradicate the deficit.
Weekly stocks on the LME fell 200 tonnes to 350,025 tonnes.
ZINC: higher then lower. Zinc rose 10 dollars early in the week to breach  the 1,000 dollars per tonne level, from the Friday close, but fell lower later  in the week to end at around 970 dollars per tonne.
Traders said zinc followed the other metals higher but the market was   flaccid towards the end of the week and they noted that only firm  comission-house buying was preventing the price from moving lower.
Adams said that the outlook for zinc was by no means bearish and that  although LME zinc stocks were continuing to rise, "the market seems to be  happy to ignore that at the moment."
Weekly stocks on the LME rose 6,825 tonnes to a record 1,169,675 tonnes.
