Thanong Siriprechapong, a Thai opposition MP  accused by US authorities of drug trafficking, resigned Saturday but the  parliamentary scandal on narcotics dealing seemed far from over.
Chart Thai party leader Banharn Silapa-archa announced that Thanong, who  represented Nakhon Phanom district in the remote north-east, had left the  party and so lost his legislative seat and with it his parliamentary immunity.
The party chief told a press conference Thanong had decided to step down  "to preserve the honour and dignity of our parliamentary institution."
Statements that Thanong was wanted in the United States on charges of  trafficking more than 45 tons of marijuana over a 14-year period triggered a  wave of insults and recriminations across the floor of Thailand's parliament.       Unconfirmed reports have said 17 opposition politicians, including 10  sitting MPs, and also three government MPs were suspected of drug dealing.
Thanong's exit was the first time a Thai MP had resigned over drugs  charges. But despite US-Thai treaties it is considered unlikely he will be  extradited to the United States, in view of a recent statement by Prime  Minister Chuan Leekpai that a Thai citizen should be tried by a court in his  own country.
A second opposition MP, Mongkol Chongsuthamanee from the smaller Chart  Pattana party, remains in the spotlight, after the US embassy confirmed Friday  that he had been refused a visa in March because of "a well-founded reason to  believe" he was involved in drugs trading.
In Parliament, Mongkol represents Chiang Rai in the extreme north of the  country, an area commonly regarded as part of the so-called "golden triangle"  where Burma, Laos, and Thailand meet. The hilly region is said to be the  source of some two-thirds of the world's heroin supplies.
Prime Minister Chuan vowed Friday to take action against politicans  involved in the drug trade but said there was not enough evidence to justify  the arrest of any MP.
With a parliamentary row blazing and affecting mainly the oposition, Chart  Thai secretary general Sanoh Thienthong was quoted in Bangkok newspapers as  calling for dissolution of parliament and new elections.
This was one of several pleas this week to uphold the dignity of the  chamber, two of whose members came to blows in an angry exchange.
Meanwhile the chief of police, General Pratin Santiprapop, told the  English-language daily the Nation: "Unless they are implicated by couriers it  is quite simply impossible" to catch big drug barons.
