Britiain is to hold a referendum in Northern  Ireland over the future of the province, the British government said Thursday,  in response to a nationalist challenge for clarifications to a peace  initiative for the troubled region.
The move followed the presentation of a list of 20 questions by Sinn Fein  -- political wing of the outlawed Irish Republican Army (IRA) -- to London on  last December's joint Downing Street peace declaration on Northern Ireland,  signed by Britain and the Irish Republic.
In a statement the Northern Ireland Office said the wishes "of a greater  number of the people of Northern Ireland would be determined by a numerical  majority of those validly voting in a poll fairly and explicitly organised for  this purpose.
"Provision for such a poll is made in Section 1 of the Northern Ireland  Constitution Act 1973," the statement said, referring to the act which  authorises a referendum every ten years."
A referendum in 1972, which was largely boycotted by the Roman Catholic  minority -- 41.4 percent abstained -- showed 57.6 percent of the population  were in favour of Northern Ireland remaining part of the United Kingdom.
In the December 15 joint declaration, Britain said it would "uphold the  democratic wishes of a greater number of the people of Northern Ireland."
It offered Sinn Fein a full place in peace negotiations on condition that  the IRA renounce violence for at least three months.
But Sinn Fein has neither accepted nor rejected the document, asking only  for clarification, which Britain had thus far declined.
Sinn Fein's immediate reaction was that it would "examine" the British  government's response, which was relayed to the government of Irish Prime  Minister Albert Reynolds during the afternoon.
Mitchel McLaughlin, Sinn Fein party chairman, said: "The response from the  British government can only assist in the development of such a peace process  if it provides direct, unambiguous and comprehensive answers to the 20  questions we have asked."
Sources close to the organisation said any response could take several  weeks while the organisation consulted its members.
Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew had said earlier the  government had considered only one of the 20 questions put to ministers by  Sinn Fein on the Downing Street declaration.
Mayhew said the rest of the questions on the five-month-old declaration on  the future administration of Northern Ireland were "to some extent invitations  to negotiate.
"We are not going to negotiate. That is made very clear, until they have  said ... violence has come to an end," he told the BBC in an interview.
Reynolds later welcomed Britain's response saying the document was    comprehensive and positive and "should end the roadblock to peace."
Deputy premier Dick Spring said: "I welcome this document - and Sinn Fein  should, too. It has to potential to end the logjam to the peace process thrown  up by clarification."
Ulster Unionist leader James Molyneaux said there was now "no room, no  excuse, no justification for violence and ... no need for any further  clarification."
The hardline leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, the Rev Ian Paisley,  angrily accused Britain of "lying through its teeth" about a border poll.
"The thing is not finished at all. It means the British government has  been  in cahoots with Dublin while Dublin is in cahoots with the murderers,"  he said, dubbing London's response a "red herring."
