Suspected Islamic fundamentalists killed three  Russians and 11 Algerian soldiers in an attack as the army-dominated  government made a new bid to find a political solution to the civil war.
An armed gang killed the Russians and the soldiers in an attack on a bus  near the Algerian coastal town of Jijel, a Russian foreign ministry spokesman  said in Moscow Thursday.
The latest bloodshed attributed to Moslem extremists came on Wednesday, as  President Lamine Zeroual inaugurated an interim parliament aimed at steering  Algeria out of Islamic insurrection and towards democracy.
"A large number of the terrorists were also killed" in Wednesday's attack,  spokesman Grigori Karassin said, adding that Moscow had called on the Algerian  government to begin an urgent investigation into it.
Karassin identified the slain Russian men by their surnames -- Baturin,  Pietkevich and Chenchikov -- and said they were civilian technicians and  engineers at an electric power plant.
The bus had originally been due to take 25 Russians from Jijel to Algiers  airport, he added.
Neither government officials in Algiers nor diplomats in the Algerian  capital announced or confirmed the report.
The attack brings to 37 the number of foreigners reported slain in  Algeria, including seven Russians, in attacks blamed on armed Moslem  extremists who have been at war with the authorities since January 1992.
Fundamentalists, who have had no legal voice since the Islamic Salvation  Front (FIS) was banned after the cancellation of the second round of general  elections that month, launched a campaign against foreigners last November.
The FIS had been poised to sweep the polls.
A Russian embassy official was shot dead on March 28 as he was shopping in  a village south of Algiers.
In October last year, two Russian air force instructors, lieutenant  colonels Vladimir Valejny and Alexander Orlov were killed at Laghouat in the  southeast by a gang who also seriously wounded one of their colleagues.
In December, a Russian woman married to an Algerian, Larissa Ayada, was  shot dead in an attack at a market in Diar El Afia, near Kouba in the southern  suburbs of Algiers.
The same month, an army bus used by Russian military cooperation personnel  came under fire near the capital and the driver was wounded, but there were no  Russians aboard at the time.
Moscow recalled "non-essential" diplomatic staff in December and  recommended that Russian nationals leave the country. In all, the number of  Russians in Algeria has been cut by half to some 1,000.
The Jijel region, 360 kilometres (225 miles) east of Algiers, is home to  several hundred thousand people in remote mountain villages, reputed to be  well under fundamentalist control.
The terrain is well suited to guerrilla warfare and ambush operations by  armed gangs and several major state companies, including a glassworks, a cork  factory and a tannery, have moved out, citing security reasons.
Zeroual renewed his pledge Wednesday to "relaunch political dialogue" and  said one of his first priorities was to "reestablish the stability of the  country" and uphold respect for the security of people and property.
Explaining his two-pronged approach, Zeroual said: "Those are the  objectives that the state will pursue relentlessly until we have definitively  eradicated the seeds of violence and terrorism from our society."
The 200 parliamentary seats allocated Wednesday are on the basis of 85 for  political parties, 85 for trade union, business and professional  organisations, and 30 for the administration.
The five legal parties with the most support among Algerians are  boycotting the parliament and have refused to take up their allotted 22 seats,  either because they want to see talks with the FIS or because, on the  contrary, they oppose all dialogue with fundamentalists.
