Russian writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, the  celebrated dissident expelled by the old Soviet regime, will return home by  the end of this month after 20 years in exile, his wife said in an interview  published Wednesday.
"We have always known that we would come back one day or another. The fate  of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn must end on Russian soil," his wife Natalya Svetlova  told the Russian paper Izvestia.
She refused to give a date.
Her generally reclusive husband, 75, wanted to avoid journalists and  return quietly to the land where he wrote some of his greatest works despite  Soviet attempts to silence him through years in a labor camp, explusion from  the official Writers' Union and internal exile in Siberia.
Solzhenitsyn was finally stripped of his Soviet nationality and expelled  from Russia on February 13, 1974, handcuffed and surrounded by KGB agents --   four years after being awarded the Nobel Prize for literature in 1970.
The reforms that swept through the Eastern bloc brought the restoration of  his Soviet passport in 1990.
He will return this month from his home in exile in Vermont in the United  States with a Russian passport and settle in a big home in the Moscow suburbs  on land the Moscow city hall is renting to him.
"The house is not yet ready," Natalya said, stressing that Solzhenitsyn  was paying the buliding costs.
She told the paper they would probably live in the capital at first, "in  an apartment I bought in Moscow in 1992."
She said this might be "difficult for Aleksandr, who has never lived in a  big city and is used to the silence of the forests of Vermont."
"If friends offer us a place in their dacha, we will probably accept," she  said.
Natalya said the couple will leave most of their possessions behind at  their home in Vermont, which they will leave to their children, moving  essentially Solzhenitsyn's extensive library.
"We already have 400 boxes of books and archives, documents and memoirs of  Russians who have lived abroad. And the packing isn't finished yet," Natalya  said.
She said the only piece of furniture they would bring over would be the  writer's huge desk.
Though the author of "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich" and "The  Gulag Archipelago" does not plan to take part in politics but to devote his  time to his writing, he also does not want to "keep himself outside of what is  going on in the country," she said.
"Aleksandr really wants to travel throughout Russia, to meet people. He  wants to see with his own eyes how the country has changed," his wife said.
She said one of their first trips would be to Riazan, 200 kilometers (125  miles) southeast of Moscow, where the writer lived for some 10 years and where  he wrote many of his books.
Natalya said Solzhenitsyn felt a "great sorrow for Russia."
"Aleksandr thinks that a solution for the current problems must be found  within the society. The only hope are the inside forces, all that is still  safe and sound inside the body, the country," she said.
Though Solzhenitsyn welcomes the broad freedom in the country today as  compared with the harsh repression of 20 years ago, he still feels that "true  freedom of speech has not yet been attained in Russia."
"The press remains dependent, whether on state subsidies or on the new big  financiers. We also see excesses. We understand that this is an affliction of  the transition period, but all the same it is a shame," she said.
