The D-Day invasion of Europe was preceded by  another, "friendly," invasion, that of Britain by a million and a half  American GIs whose presence rearranged the social landscape, in ways  short-term, in ways forever.
They began arriving in early 1942, swelling to 750,000 by the start of  1944, and in the weeks before D-Day there was an American presence across the  southern England staging area equal to the present-day population of  Philadelphia.
The Americans brought over 137,000 jeeps, trucks and half-tracks, 4,200  full-tracks and 3,500 artillery pieces, and by 1944 they were shipping in  750,000 tons of supplies a month.
But mostly, they brought themselves, a young, cocky, insouciant bunch that  the prim and proper Brits didn't quite know how to take.
Well-paid, well-fed, wide-eyed and green, the Yanks came from a land of  peace and plenty to one that was already bombed, war-weary and ration-starved.
They had money to spend and well-stocked PXs (post exchanges) in which to  spend it.
They had easy access to such black market rarities as sugar and butter,  chocolate and whiskey, canned fruit, Coca Cola, and the legendary pressed  canned meat, Spam. And they were generous with it.
US powdered eggs, in waxed green cardboard containers marked, "Hands  across the sea," became a staple in the British family ration packet.
The British kids loved the Yanks.
"Got any gum, chum?" was the standard schoolboy cheer as US army trucks  rolled by, and the Yanks responded with a hail of chewing gum and chocolate  bars.
"Any time you came across a GI in the street he'd always give you some  loose change out of his pocket," recalled a Londoner who was a schoolboy in  1944.
"They gave us souvenirs, bits of uniforms, and American classic comic  books. Christ, us kids would kill for those comic books."
Any kind of cigarettes were cherished in war-time Britain, but the  American Pall Malls and Lucky Strikes, available only from PXs, through GIs,  were a status symbol whose appearance would bring a hush to a crowded pub.
Brits and Yanks spoke the same language, but didn't always whistle the  same tune. There were clashes, there was resentment.
In a country where many of the eligible bachelors were off in foreign  wars, the Yanks were "Over-paid, over-sexed, over here," as the saying went.
Despite the best efforts of the US Army and stern British parents to  discourage the practice, some 70,000 American GIs took British war brides.
"The Yanks were a brash, aggressive bunch," recalled the ex-schoolboy.
"The girls used to hang out at the camp gates because the Yanks always had  stuff and they were generous with it -- chocolate, sugar, cigarettes, nylons.
"The best thing a girl could do was hook up with a GI who worked in the  camp kitchen. Her family would eat like kings.
"Some of the more conservative-minded British resented the Yanks," he  recalled. "But there was a very strong feeling of comradeship."
In the southern county of Dorset, a main staging area that received a  large part of the American GIs, a pamphlet read:
"A warm welcome awaits any members of the fighting services of the United  States of America who may find themselves here in our midst...We would rejoice  to think that they felt at home...our gallant allies and kinsmen."
"There was a very strong feeling of sympathy, a closeness for the Yanks,"  said the ex-schoolboy. "Here were these green American kids, straight out of  school, never seen a war, never been shot at, and the Brits had been through  it.
"They knew a lot of the Yanks would never be going home."
