As China pushes hard for early re-entry to the  GATT, senior trade experts here are sounding warning bells that membership of  the world trade body could pose serious threats to the country's booming  economy.
Although China stands to reap long-term benefits from rejoining the  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the immediate opening of the  Chinese market to sophisticated foreign competitors -- especially in the  service sector -- will adversely effect the country's balance of payments and  trade deficit.
According to Chu Xiangyin, a professor at the University of Foreign Trade  and Economics, GATT access is likely to make China a net importer of services  for many years.
"A consequent influx of foreign higher-quality and lower-cost services  will pose a threat to China's international balance of payments," Chu was  quoted as saying by the China Daily Business Weekly.
China signed a general agreement on trade in services as part of the final  act of the Uruguay Round of GATT talks in Morroco last month, pledging  transparency in trade regimes, greater market access and equal treatment for  domestic and foreign businesses operating in China.
Implementation of the agreement would see China's fledgling service  industry, such as the banking sector, squeezed by a sudden inflow of foreign  competitors, Chu said.
He also warned that other sectors which involved aspects of national  security, such as aviation and telecommunications, lacked a strong legal  framework guiding foreign involvement.
"When there's not a complete law to regulate the operation of foreign  transnationals, the potential threat (to state safety) cannot be ruled out,"  he said.
Finally Chu pointed out that China's service sector was woefully  undeveloped in general, and not only a long way from catching up with  developed nations, but even lagging behind developing ones.
During a visit here earlier this month, GATT Secretary General Peter  Sutherland identified poor availiability of services, especially in inland  areas, as a major challenge facing China's reform programme.
Sutherland also made it clear during his trip that it would be extremely  difficult for China to realise its ambition of rejoining GATT by year's end,  given ongoing concerns over the lack of transnparency in its foreign trade  regime.
China, which was a founding member of GATT but left after the communists  came to power in 1949, has made it clear that it attaches great political  significance to being readmitted before GATT is replaced by the World Trade  Organisation (WTO) on January 1.
Chu's warnings on the drawbacks of GATT membership were echoed by Wang  Xinkui, deputy director of of the Shaghai Foreign Trade Institute.
"In general, it will be easier for foreign businesses to enter into the  Chinese market than for Chinese companies to enter into foreign ones," Wang  said, adding that GATT access could result in long-term trade deficits for  China.
"Moreover, a huge demand for foreign consumer goods by ordinary people  will be a potential stimulus to new rounds of imports," Wang said.
China has hampered export efficiency by failing to establish new  money-spinning industries at a time when soaring labour and raw material costs  are damaging the competitiveness of its labour-intensive industries.
"We must lose no time in bolstering a cluster of new technology-intensive  industries, which will be the mainstay of the national economy in the next  century," Wang said.
