King Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia renewed  Tuesday an offer to host peace talks between the government and the Khmer  Rouge and, on the eve of his departure for Beijing, called on co-premier Hun  Sen and guerrilla chief Khieu Samphan to bury the hatchet.
"Cambodia and its people are sinking deeper every day into the abyss of  national annihilation," the king said in a statement released by the Royal  Palace. "I cannot abandon my efforts to restore peace and national  reconciliation."
The king admitted his earlier precondition for a ceasefire ahead of peace  talks now appeared unfeasible.
But he said he would invite co-premiers Prince Norodom Ranariddh and Hun  Sen, National Assembly chairman Chea Sim and Khmer Rouge nominal leader Khieu  Samphan to participate in "Round Table" talks at his residence in Pyongyang on  May 27.
King Sihanouk said last week he would leave to resume medical treatment in  Beijing on Wednesday, two weeks earlier than scheduled, citing his frustration  at Cambodia's politicians for failing to accept his proposals for peace.
The monarch had previously proposed hosting Round Table talks at the Royal  Palace here starting early May but Khieu Samphan refused to attend, citing  concerns for his security in the capital and suggesting that the talks be held  elsewhere in a "neutral" location.
The king later suggested holding new elections as a means of bringing the  radical faction into the democratic process and ending the country's ongoing  conflict, but the proposal met with a lukewarm reception from the government.
Speaking at a ceremony in the palace Tuesday where US Ambassador Charles  Twining presented his credentials, the king said that the "Round Table" talks  were the "best solution."
Both sides are to discuss implementing the king's proposal whereby certain  "acceptable" members of the radical faction are given senior cabinet posts in  the government in exchange for the Khmer Rouge's giving up their zones,  ceasing all guerrilla activities and merging their fighters with the royal  armed forces.
"The question is whether or not Khieu Samphan and Hun Sen will be able to  overcome their mutual hatred and distrust," the king said.
The king, however, said he was also "suspicious" of Khieu Samphan's  sincerity in saying he supported the king's plan.
But said he was going ahead with the peace talks despite his pessimism  about a positive outcome.
"I must concentrate on peace talks otherwise we face the extinction of  Cambodia as a nation and the Khmers as a race," he said.
There was, however, a small glimmer of hope, the king said.
Hun Sen used to make speeches "violently" attacking Prince Ranariddh prior  to last May's UN-organised elections which lead to the two leaders reconciling  their differences, sharing the post of premier and heading a coalition  government, the king said.
"Now they kiss each other three times a day."
