North Korea, threatening to reignite an  international row Saturday, said it had begun refuelling a controversial  nuclear reactor without international inspectors who want to test if material  has been diverted for atomic weapons.
"The replacement of fuel rods has begun at our five-megawatt experimental  nuclear power station according to its operational plan," a North Korean  foreign ministry spokesman told the official Korean Central News Agency,  monitored in Tokyo.
Pyongyang's action at its Yongbyong complex risks heightening the nuclear  standoff with South Korea and the United States. US officials believe  Yongbyong holds the key to whether North Korea has developed its own nuclear  bomb.
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors were due to leave  Vienna on Sunday for North Korea, and in Vienna agency spokesman David Kyd  said Saturday the trip was still scheduled despite the North Korean statement,  as the IAEA had received no official advice of the refuelling.
He said that if refuelling had indeed started, it would be a "grave  violation" of agreements between the agency and North Korea on inspections.
"If the reports (of the refuelling) turn out to be correct, the inspectors  will be immediately recalled to Vienna," he said. Earlier Kyd had said that  the inspectors would cut short the visit if the refuelling operation had  reached a "critical stage" before their expected arrival Tuesday.
The North Korean spokesman said the IAEA had refused to send inspectors to  observe refuelling at the Yongbyong plant unless fuel rods could be sampled.
"Under such conditions, we had no choice but to remove the seals and start  taking out fuel rods for safety reasons," the spokesman was quoted as saying  by the news agency.
The North Korean official said, "refuelling is taking place under the  watch of the cameras installed by the agency. So, there are no grounds for  concern about the diversion of the replaced fuel rods for another purpose."
The North Korean official added however Pyongyang had proposed  negotiations with the IAEA to over its presence at the refueling and related  oustanding issues.
He reaffirmed Pyongyang was prepared to "store all the spent fuel under the  strict surveillance of the IAEA and fully allow the IAEA to measure it" when  the dispute is settled between North Korea and the United States.
IAEA inspectors went into Yongbyong, 90 kilometres (55 miles) north of  Pyongyang in March following a one-year halt of inspections of North Korea's  seven declared nuclear sites.
But North Korea denied them access to a radio-chemical laboratory at the  plant, further raising suspicions that it was developing nuclear arms. Western  experts believe the laboratory may be a processing facility.
The hardline communist state later said IAEA inspectors could watch the  replacement of fuel rods at the experimental plant. But it refused to let them  sample the rods to test whether fuel had been diverted for a military  programme.
North Korea threatened last year to totally withdraw from the Nuclear  Non-Proliferation Treaty. That followed a US-led campaign to force the North  to allow full international inspection of it's nuclear facilities, including  two undeclared sites.
The US fears North Korea has enough fissile material to make four to five  nuclear weapons.
Pyongyang "suspended" its decision to leave the treaty last June, but  continued to deny full inspections of its nuclear sites saying the country was  in a "unique" status under a suspended membership.
Earlier this month, Robert Gallucci, the US assistant secretary of state  for politico-military affairs, said he was not confident a diplomatic solution  could be found to the problem.
Gallucci has been closely involved in talks with North Korea in which  Washington is thought to have offered economic aid and diplomatic recognition  in return for nuclear inspections.
If IAEA inspectors do not get satisfactory access, Washington may carry  out its threat to ask the United Nations to impose sanctions against North  Korea. South Korea meanwhile fears the growing dispute will erupt into  conflict.
