Authorities handed arms and drugs to four armed men  holding 13 hostages aboard a bus in southern Russia late Thursday, as the  kidnap drama continued with authorities apparently keen to placate the gunmen.
The 10 million dollars demanded by the gunmen earlier in the day had been  flown to the scene, accompanied by special anti-organized-crime forces, said  ministry sources.
According to ITAR-TASS, citing police sources, officials had prepared a  helicopter at Mineralnoye Vody airport, in line with the hostage-takers'  demands but ministry sources could not confirm this.
The Moscow Echo commericial radio station, in a report monitored by the  Interfax news agency, said an operation to release the hostages and disarm the  criminals was planned to begin after nightfall.
The station gave no details of the operation.
The arms and drugs were handed over in exchange for the gangsters  releasing most of their captives, initially numbering about 50, during the  day, interior ministry sources said.
The drama began Thursday afternoon when the gunmen hijacked the bus near  the town of Mineralnoye Vody as it travelled from the North Ossetian city of  Vladikavkaz en route to the southern Russian city of Stavropol.
The authorities allowed the bus to approach the town's airport, where  officials earlier said some 800 troops were deployed, surrounded by police  vehicles, according to Stavropol police chief General Ivan Tetereviatnikov.
The security forces handed over four sub-machineguns, a grenade launcher,  four bullet-proof vests, night-sights and a portable television set to the  men, an interior ministry source said.
Police had previously also provided the gunmen with phials of morphine,  security forces said.
The arms had been "prepared" by the interior ministry but the bullet-proof  vests were real, the source said. Television news broadcasts were being  "filtered."
During the afternoon the hostage-takers released the 15 children they were  holding along with 23 men in a operation staggered over several hours,  Tetereviatnikov told AFP by telephone.
He said that after the latest release, the gunmen were still holding 13  adults, mostly women.
Interfax earlier reported that the gunmen were threatening to kill one of  the passengers within the hour if their demands were not met but  Tetereviatnikov denied that any ultimatum had been issued.
The police chief said that a negotiating team directed by Erin and Askarbek  Galazov, president of the Russian republic of North Ossetia, told the gunmen  they would not be harmed if they released the hostages.
Tetereviatnikov said the two sides were communicating by notes and that  the bus had been immobilised near the airport at Mineralnoye Vody.
The hostage-taking was the fourth to occur in the region in the past five  years.
The last hostage drama occurred last December when 15 schoolchildren were  abducted in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-the-Don.
The four-man gang obtained a helicopter and led authorities on a four-day  airborne pursuit through the Caucasus before releasing their hostages one by  one in return for 10 million dollars in ransom, most of which was recovered.
In March 1992 three men hijacked a bus carrying twenty workers and two  militia members. They demanded a plane to take them to Turkey but were refused  admission by Ankara and were arrested in the breakaway Russian republic of  Chechnya.
Tetereviatnikov said their was no known link between the previous  hostage-taking in Rostov and the latest incident.
