Sporadic artillery duels on Monday broke an  uneasy calm along the front lines in Yemen's four-week civil war, military  officials said here.
Fighting has died down since Sunday along an arc west, north, and east of  the southern stronghold of Aden, proclaimed the capital of a separate state 10  days ago, they said.
It was not clear if the lull was linked to preparations for a possible new  northern offensive or week-long, intensive Arab and other diplomatic efforts  to seek a ceasefire in the civil war that broke out on May 5.
Forces loyal to Ali Salem al-Baid fired two Scud missiles earlier Sunday  at the north in retaliation for what they charged was a northern missile  attack on Saturday on Aden that killed one civilian, officials here said.
The north, which denied the charge saying it had only fired artillery at  military targets at Aden airport, reported that one Scud exploded about 20  kilometers (12 miles) from the capital Sanaa and the other landed in a suburb  without exploding.
There were no casualties or damage, northern officials said.
Northern warplanes blasted and destroyed four southern warships off the  coast of Abyan province east of Aden, according to a spokesman for forces  loyal to Ali Abdallah Saleh in Sanaa.
Four southern warplanes were also shot down over the same province and  above the southern base at Al-Anad, 60 kilometers (36 miles) north of Aden, he  said.
A southern official said in Kuwait on Monday that he was confident that  several Arab countries would recognize the breakaway Yemen Democratic  Republic, proclaimed on May 21.
"I found a very positive attitude in the countries I have visited  regarding the issue of recognizing the YDR as well as the need for a quick  halt to hostilities," Haidar Abu Bakr al-Attas, the prime minister of the  breakaway state, told AFP.
Attas arrived in Kuwait on Sunday after visiting Egypt, Syria, Saudi  Arabia, Oman and the United Arab Emirates.
"A majority of Arab countries, except Qatar, Jordan and Iraq, are going to  recognize the YDR."
The 1990 unification of the former conservative North and Marxist South  Yemen "as it was imposed by the northerners was a bitter experience. Future  generations may find a better formula," he said.
Saleh's government vehemently refuses to reconsider the unity of Yemen and  is opposed to mediation by outsiders, including the United Nations.
Such involvement would constitute a violation of the UN charter, the  north's Deputy Prime Minister Abdelwaheb al-Ansi said on Sunday.
He denied a statement by Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Mussa who said in  Cairo on Sunday that the north had agreed to the issue of a ceasefire being  examined by the UN Security Council.
In Sanaa, an official spokesman said that a figure of 50,000 killed on  both sides in Yemen was too high and that a casualty toll would be published  soon.
"This figure is very, very exaggerated," he said.
Arab League information officer, Talaat Hamed, quoted by the Saudi daily  Al-Yaom said the war had left more than 50,000 dead on both sides and caused  more than 10 billion dollars in damage.
