The Crimean parliament took a new step  towards secession from Ukraine Friday, triggering a political crisis in Kiev  and prompting Russia to warn Ukrainian authorities not to react with force.
Lawmakers in the predominantly Russian-populated republic voted  overwhelmingly in favor of restoring a 1992 constitution that establishes  treaty relations between Kiev and Crimea, allows for Crimean citizenship and  provides for the establishment of a local militia force.
The vote, seen as a declaration of independence by the republic, came  despite a warning from Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk that Kiev "has  enough power to force respect" of Ukrainian sovereignty.
In Kiev, the Ukrainian parliament convened to discuss the crisis and  examine a draft resolution giving the Crimean parliament 10 days to reverse  its decision, according to the text of the resolution obtained by AFP.
Kravchuk presented the resolution to deputies at a closed-door session in  which he condemned the parliamentary vote here as "a step towards Crimea's  separation from Ukraine."
In Moscow, Russian President Boris Yeltsin said he had warned Kravchuk to  refrain from using force against the secessionist republic and that the  Ukrainian leader had assured him he would not inflame the situation, Interfax  reported.
"There cannot be in any instance any forceful actions undertaken against  Crimea," Yeltsin said he told Kravchuk in a telephone conversation Thursday  dealing with Friday's planned vote on the constitution.
"Crimea is a sovereign republic within Ukraine and has the right to its  own political stand and the right to make its own decision", he said.
Yeltsin stressed that Russia as well as central authorities in Kiev should  not meddle in Crimean affairs, saying that "neither we, nor Urkaine" have the  right to intervene.
Meanwhile, the command of the disputed Black Sea fleet, which has its home  base in the Crimean port city of Sevastopol, called on both sides to seek a  political settlement to the crisis.
In a statement released by the press service, the fleet command warned that  "should the situation develop in any way, the Black Sea fleet will not be able  to remain on the sidelines of the process going on around it."
"The command of the fleet calls on all those involved in the actual events  in Crimea to do everything possible to resolve contentious issues by political  means," the statement said.
Crimea -- a republic of 2.5 million residents, 67 percent of whom are  ethnic Russians -- has been moving towards closer ties with Moscow since the  January election of Russian nationalist Yuri Meshkov to the presidency.
The Crimean peninsula was part of Russia up until former Soviet leader  Nikita Krushchev handed over the territory to Ukraine as a "gift" celebrating  the friendship between the two Slav peoples.
The Crimean vote came despite consecutive warnings from Kravchuk that he  would resort to "firm" measures against the Crimean leadership if it restored  the constitution which he said threatened Ukraine's territorial integrity.
Russian Defence Minister General Pavel Grachev warned that tension in  Crimea "could ignite a fire unless the situation was normalised through  talks", Interfax reported.
Grachev said he had received reports that Kiev had dispatched Ukrainian  troops to Crimea, including special elite forces, and that troops in the Black  Sea region of Odessa had been placed in a state of combat readiness.
He warned both sides against staging "provocations" against the Black Sea  fleet, which has been a bone of contention between Russia and Ukraine since  the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
The Crimean leadership has supported Russia's drive to take control of the  powerful armada.
The decision to restore the Crimean secessionist constitution was approved  by a vote of 69 to two but Tatar and communist deputies did not take part in  the vote.
The parliament also decided that all conscripts in the Ukrainian army  would serve in Crimea and banned all military service of its residents  "outside of Crimean territory", Interfax reported.
