1962: Despite an ageing squad and the loss of Pele with a torn thigh  muscle in their second group match, Brazil were again head and shoulders above  the opposition in Chile.
With Pele out, little Garrincha took on the starring role and it was his  brilliant performances that took Brazil past England in the quarters and  destroyed the hosts dream in the semi-final. Amarildo, the man who had the  task of replacing Pele, scored one goal and made another as Brazil came from  behind to win the final 3-1 against Czechoslovakia.
1966: England became the first host nation to win the trophy since Italy  in 1934 -- but the triumph was marred by the controversy surrounding the  crucial goal in the final against West Germany. Geoff Hurst's extra-time shot  hit the bar and rebounded onto the line. The Russian linesman judged the ball  had crossed the line even though it bounced away from the goal. Hurst scored  again in the closing seconds to complete the first final hat-trick and a 4-2  victory.
Brazil, with Pele only half-fit, failed to make it past the first round,  beaten by Hungary and Eusebio's Portugal, who went on to finish third after  losing to England in the semi-finals. Eusebio, born in Mozambique, became the  first African to have a major impact on the World Cup. North Korea put Asia on  the map with their 1-0 defeat of Italy.
1970: The triumphant victory of Brazil's flowing, attacking football  established the Mexico finals as the best-loved in the history of the  tournament. The combination of sweltering heat and altitude helped undermine  the challenge of England and Italy, but even in ideal conditions it is  doubtful if the Europeans would have been able to resist the genius of Pele,  Jairzinho, Tostao and Gerson.
The Brazilians' victory was sealed in a 4-1 rout of the negative Italians  in the final. In six games in Mexico they scored 19 times. No winner since  then has repeated their feat of winning every match in the finals.
1974: The World Cup of total football -- the new system pioneered by the  all-conquering Ajax sides of the early 70s. Holland, inspired by Johan Cruyff  and with a team founded on the Ajax line-up, started the tournament as clear  favourites only to lose a dramatic final to West Germany.
The Dutch took the lead in the opening minutes from the penalty spot but  'Der Bomber' Gerd Muller and a Paul Breitner penalty ensured a home victory.
As in 1954, the Germans had come back from an opening round defeat -- this  time a 1-0 loss in a historic meeting with their East German neighbours.
Although it is remembered as the final Holland lost, the West Germans --  European champions two years earlier -- had made their own contribution to  total football through Franz Beckenbauer's creation of the sweeper's role.
Poland, who had eliminated England in qualifying, finished third by  beating Brazil who were a pale and cynical shadow of the side that had won so  majestically four years earlier.
1978: FIFA defied the protests of international human rights organisations  in allowing the finals to go ahead in Argentina, which had been under military  dictatorship since 1976.
The absence of both Cruyff and Beckenbauer helped devalue the tournament  and proved fatal to the Dutch and German challenges. Holland made it to the  final but lost again -- 3-1 in extra time. Mario Kempes' two final goals made  him the hero of a tournament.
Few commentators believed Argentina would have won anywhere but on home  territory. They were helped by hostile crowds and some spineless refereeing  and a whiff of corruption surrounded the 6-0 victory over Peru that put them  in the final on goal difference. Scotland's disastrous campaign was topped by  winger Willie Johnston being sent home in disgrace for taking banned 'pep'  pills.
