Japan's Kobe Steel Ltd. announced Friday a pre-tax  loss of 3.4 billion yen (33 million dollars) for the year to March and  forecast further losses of 20 billion yen in the first half of the current  year.
The loss at the parent company, which reversed a profit of 14.5 billion  yen a year earlier, was accompanied by a forecast for a consolidated loss of  nine billion yen in the same period, compared with a 10.4 billion profit  previously.
Kobe Steel, which like its rivals suspended its year-end dividend payment,   blamed Japan's protracted recession and the yen's appreciation for its poor  performance in the latest year. While it failed to make projections for the  full year ahead, the company stressed the "difficult" business environment.
"As the economic outlook is uncertain, capital investment in the private  sector is anticipated to be curtailed and demand for other durable goods is  expected to continue being weak," a statement said.
The leading steelmaker, which also makes aluminium and copper products,  said sales dived 9.3 percent in the latest year to 1,068 billion yen with iron  and steel sales alone falling 7.5 percent to 516 billion yen.
"In Japan, sales volume decreased due to substantially lower domestic  demand from the automotive, electrical and industrial machinery, and  construction industries. Exports to the United States fell due to anti-dumping  litigation in steel products but exports increased sharply to China," the  company said.
Revenue from aluminium and copper operations was down 10.4 percent at 217  billion yen, hit by lower prices for aluminium ingots and copper cathodes.
"Demand for rolled aluminium products and copper products remained weak as  personal consumption was sluggish, private-sector capital investment was  stagnant and sales of aluminium can stock were down due to the cool summer."
Sales of machinery meanwhile dropped 11.1 percent to 334 billion yen.  "Sales from the plant engineering business were firm. However, they were  offset by an overall decline in domestic demand for industrial and  construction machinery, as well as a sharp decline in the land development  business," it said.
Kobe Steel forecast consolidated sales for the latest year at 1,250 billion  yen, down six percent. Sales by the parent company in the first half of the  current year were projected at between 520 billion yen and 530 billion yen,  down from 545 billion yen in the six months to September last year.
