France launched its bid to bring the Golden  Palm back home Friday with the long-awaited "La Reine Margot," a lavish  historical drama billed as the most gripping film on the Croisette.
But, at the end of the first full day of the 47th Cannes International  Film Festival, there was some scepticism as to whether the film could do the  job for France.
"It is too long," said one critic emerging from a preview of the film,  which has its public premiere in Grand Theatre Lumiere here Friday evening.  "Too aesthetic," said another.
The film, starring Isabelle Adjani and Daniel Auteuil, tells the story of  Marguerite of Valois, forced to marry for political expediency in August 1572,  in the heat of the French wars of religion.
The makers of the film, directed by Patrice Chereau, were promoting the  film Friday as a gripping action film which will keep cinema-goers on the edge  of their seats for nearly three hours.
"What we are trying to do is grab the cinema audience and not to let them  go for a second," screen writer Daniele Thompson told Agence France-Presse in  a pre-premiere interview.
"It is a brutal film, like a thriller or a western. It is not a  sentimental film," he said, accurately describing the two and three-quarter  hour epic, full-blooded in more than one sense.
From the opening frame the film pulls no punches in depicting the  brutality of the time, culminating in the Saint Bartholomew Day's Massacre of  August 23 and 24, when up to 100,000 protestants died.
Margot's sexual adventures -- her marriage puts no bars on these -- are  also included liberally in the mixture, a somewhat free interpretation of the  novel by Alexandre Dumas.
The film will be attempting to bring the Golden Palm back to France seven  years after Maurice Pialat took the top prize with "Under Satan's Sun" in  1987. "Margot" has been widely promoted as France's strongest prospect here.
At a press conference for the film ahead of the premiere Friday night the  film's makers were clearly irritated by a question about it possibly being cut  for US distribution.
Adjani showed obvious pleasure with her own performance in the film: "I am  very proud and very grateful to Patrice Chereau. He made it possible for me to  be beautiful, passionate, in love, unhappy," she said.
Two other French offerings, "Grosse Fatigue" (Very Tired) by Michel Blanc  and "Les Patriotes" by Eric Rochant, have fewer hopes pinned to them than  Chereau's epic, estimated to have cost 23 million dollars to produce.
France's bid to retake the Palm follows its row with the United States  over the inclusion of a cultural exemption clause for audio-visual industry in  a global world trade agreement.
France protests that without government protection indigenous film  industries will be overwhelmed by the juggernaut of the major US film studios.
The other film premiered Friday was "Du Li Shi Dai" (Confucian Confusion)  by Taiwanese director Edward Yang, who told AFP that his story, of cultural  confusion in Asia, should be appreciated worldwide.
"I don't think it's referring just to Taiwan, it's referring to Hong Kong,  Korea, Japan and Singapore, all the confucian-influenced societies," he said  in an interview with AFP.
"If I've done a good job to tell a human story then people from other  parts of the world will appreciate it," he said, adding: "I wouldn't be  surprised at it because we're all human."
On Saturday the festival continues with "Mrs. Parker and the Vicious  Circle" by Alan Rudolph, and Russian Andrei Konchalovsky's "Assia and the  Chicken with Golden Eggs."
