As Palestinians and the world await PLO  chairman Yasser Arafat's historic arrival in autonomous Jericho in mid-June,  the media is already counting the costs of the extravaganza.
The return by Arafat, a long wait since Israel seized the West Bank and  Gaza Strip in the 1967 Middle East war, will be at the top of the news as  television networks and other media focus in on his every move.
The Palestine Liberation Organisation chief is expected to tour the newly  autonomous areas of Gaza and Jericho around June 15.
But it will cost the media big bucks, depending on the category of  coverage.
For 20,000 dollars, reporters and businessmen will have the privilege not  only of travelling with Arafat from PLO headquarters in Tunis and back, but  also of dining with him and having access to details of his itinerary.
For 10,000 dollars, reporters can attend the banquets and see Arafat at  close quarters. Photographers have to pay 20,000 dollars.
Only press conferences and public events, including speeches, will be free  of charge.
The money will go to the PLO and an Austrian holding company.
After huge sums are paid for security, a chartered flight and other  amenities, the rest of the proceeds will go toward building a science and  culture academy, Palestinian officials said.
In Tunis, a PLO official said the organisation had signed a  7.5-million-dollar contract with the Austrian firm Teleaxis Holding to  organize the media bidding.
"We have lots of interest, but no buyers this end yet," said Manuella  Hammer of the Austrian company.
Should the deal work out, it will be the first plane ride with hundreds of  journalists for the normally secretive Arafat.
The Palestinian leader's travel plans are usually kept secret for security  reasons, and he often keeps reporters waiting deep into the night for  interviews.
"We will have to spend a lot on security," said Samaan Khoury, one of the   organizers for the trip. He refused to give details but said "the PLO has so  far been capable of protecting Arafat."
No exact date has yet been fixed for departure from Tunis, but journalists  who sign up will be notified 48 hours ahead. The plane's destination has also  not been decided, and Khoury said it could be Cairo or Amman.
He acknowledged that reporters who do not pay would not have the same  level of access.
But "there will be no fee for covering the president (Arafat), it will not  be closed. We are not selling the president."
"To my knowledge, the rates are standard, like if the press travels with  any Western leader, President Clinton or someone," said Khoury.
On the ground in Jericho, Palestinian officials are preparing.
A dusty, quiet oasis town of 15,000, Jericho will be invaded by thousands  of journalists, their translators, cars, television cameras, and will have to  feed and accommodate them.
A new Palestinian press center is being set up in a building that was  meant to be a restaurant.
In two large halls, the Palestinians are to rent out office space at 800  dollars a square meter (around 80 dollars per sq. foot) for about a week, 100  telephone lines, fax machines and television hook-ups.
"We will also arrange sleeping quarters," said Adnan Hammad, a member of  the Board for the Reception of Arafat, a branch of the new Palestinian  Broadcasting Corporation.
Hammad complained of inflation because of the Arafat visit. "It used to be  possible to rent a flat cheaply here. Now there's nothing for less than 1,000  dollars a month."
