Northern troops loyal to Yemen's President Ali  Abdallah Saleh were reportedly closing in on the southern stronghold of Aden  in a three-pronged assault on Sunday.
A northern military spokesman, Colonel Ali al-Jaifi, said his Al-Amaliqa  (giants) brigade had broken through southern defences in the Abyan region,  east of the city.
An independent source in the south confirmed that heavy artillery shelling  30 kilometres (18 miles) from Aden blocked the road to the eastern town of  Zinjibar.
However, the south had mobilized its navy and air force to help repel the  assault, while Jaifi said his brigade had advanced to just 20 kilometres (12  miles) from the power base of Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid.
An artillery battle also raged on the northern front. Saleh's troops  pushed forward three kilometres (two miles) toward the key southern military  base of Al-Anad, an officer at the base acknowledged.
He told AFP that the northern forces were about 30 kilometres (18 miles)  short of the base.
"Our army is fighting a defensive war. The northern army has taken the  initiative in the conflict and is advancing on several fronts, but they  haven't made a decisive breakthrough," he said.
Al-Anad, stretching over several square kilometres (miles), serves as "the  (southern) joint command centre for all the military fronts," said the  officer, who asked not to be named.
Some 20,000 southern troops are based in the camp, he said. Al-Anad is  also a major air force base.
Outside the mountain base, 60 kilometres (35 miles) from the city, the  south has deployed anti-aircraft defence, multi-missile launchers, and  Russian-made tanks and troops carriers.
With the net closing on the port city, fighting was also underway on the  third front at Kharaz, near the Bab al-Mandeb, a gateway to the Red Sea, as  northern troops tried to approach Aden from the coast.
But in Aden itself, although cut off from the world apart from by sea, the  situation was still calm, a correspondent said. The city is sheltering  refugees from the fronts.
In the absence of casualty figures from either side in the 11-day-old civil  war, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said at least 175 Somalis  had died in a refugee camp near Aden at the start of the war.
The provisional death toll, which did not include wounded casualties, was  transmitted to a UNHCR representative and a Red Cross official in Yemen who  both reached the camp Saturday, UNHCR spokesman Ron Redmond said in Geneva.
"The people in the camp are very frightened, without food nor water,"  Redmond said.
Of the 11,600 refugees registered in the seafront Al-Koud camp, only about  1,500 remain, he said. The rest had fled the fighting to seek refuge in Aden  and other regions.
On the diplomatic front, an Arab League delegation in Sanaa since Thursday  has so far failed to broker a ceasefire between the rival leaders of Yemen, a  country unified just four years ago.
The delegation met Abdel Aziz Abdel Ghani, member of the collective  presidency, who said Sanaa would agree to a ceasefire only if Baid surrendered  to go on trial as a war criminal.
Although the south has appealed for the Arab League to stop the fighting,  northern leaders have ruled out any foreign intervention.
The conservative North and formerly Marxist South Yemen united in May 1990  after drawn-out bargaining, but a simmering feud between Saleh and Baid  erupted into full-scale war on May 5.
In the latest evacuations, 500 people arrived in Djibouti by sea on  Chinese and Russian vessels, including 356 Chinese workers who were to be  repatriated by air on Monday. A group of 185 Egyptians flew to Cairo from  Sanaa.
