Veteran Russian filmmaker Nikita Mikhalkov  launched an attack on the Russian government this weekend while in Cannes for  the premiere of his latest movie at the filmfest here.
Speaking to AFP, Mikhalkov, known for his opposition to President Boris  Yeltsin, added that he would be willing to run for the presidency.
"I do not want to be president ... if God wishes it, it would be a great  sacrifice for me. Power does not interest me, but if it is necessary, I will  stand," he said after the premiere of his film "Burnt by the Sun" Saturday.
"Lots of people have pressed me to stand, but I don't want to. Although I  could say, like (former US president Ronald) Reagan, that I have played so  many sheriffs that I could play a president," he said.
Referring to the purges of 1917 and 1936 and relating them to the events  of the past few years in Russia, he said: "Intellectuals now are displaying  the same enthusiasm for the new regime."
"Since 1917 all Russian governments have been illegal. As long as this  continues Russia will not have peace. There will be nothing so long as  everything is built on blood."
"The current generation must know that it is the manure and not the  flower. It must learn this. It has believed itself to be a flower for the last  70 years," he said.
Mikhalkov is a former associate of former vice president Alexander  Rutskoi, a leader of last year's failed parliamentary coup. "None of them were  innocent, not in 1917, 1936, or in 1990," he said.
Mikhalov's film, set in the months before the Stalinist purges of 1936,  tells the Chekhovian story of an idyllic day in the life of Soviet hero  Dimitri -- a day which turns to tragedy as the Stalinist state closes in.
The film received a generally warm welcome here Saturday, two days before  the end of the 47th Cannes International Film Festival, which ends Monday  night with the announcement of this year's Golden Palm winner.
Mikhalkov, 49, is the brother of Andrei Konchalovsky, also in competion  here with "Riaba My Chicken." Konchalovsky has only recently returned to  making films in his native land, after many years in the United States.
