North Korea has started removing fuel rods from  a nuclear reactor with no international inspectors present and may have  acquired plutonium for its suspected nuclear weapons program, a US official  said Thursday.
US officials were told of the action by International Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors who visited the reactor site.
The IAEA inspectors had hoped to convince North Korea to allow them to be  present to ensure the plutonium in the fuel rods was not diverted to military  uses.
The US official, who declined to be identified, added that inspectors may  be allowed to monitor the reactor defueling - a process that takes weeks.
North Korea had said last week it would remove the exhausted fuel rods  from the reactor at the Yongbyon nuclear complex but it was not until Thursday  that officials confirmed that the process had begun.
"I think it would be an error for North Korea to continue to thwart these  inspections after they have agreed to comply with them," said President Bill  Clinton, who declined to comment further.
US Defense Secretary, William Perry, said Wednesday that his government  faced "a very substantial near-term crisis" with North Korea.
The fuel rods in the reactor contains enough plutonium for four or five  nuclear bombs, the Pentagon said.
North Korea has denied that it has a nuclear weapons program but has  balked at international inspections.
The Central Intelligence Agency has estimated that North Korea withdrew  enough plutonium in the late 1980s to make at least one nuclear device and  that there is a more than 50 percent chance it actually did so.
North Korea's continued refusal to abide by the IAEA's non-proliferation  rules has led to international threats of UN sanctions, which in turn prompted  war threats from Pyongyang.
North Korean President Kim Il-Sung, in his latest warning, said that North  Korea would not bow to international pressure over its nuclear ambitions,  saying that "pressure can never be a solution to the problem," according to  the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA).
"If the United States continues to clamour to put pressure on our  republic, we will be compelled to take due measures of self-defence to  safeguard the dignity of our nation and the sovereignty of our country," added  the leader of the Stalinist state.
In Vienna, an IAEA spokesman said their inspectors in North Korea had  visited an experimental reactor and a radiochemical laboratory at the Yongbyon  nuclear complex and will continue their inspection Friday.
