French intellectuals who decided to stand in  European elections on a pro-Bosnia Moslem ticket on Monday called off the bid,  said the group's leader, philosopher Bernard-Henri Levy.
But Levy said in a statement that the intellectuals on the "Europe starts  at Sarajevo" list would continue to campaign.
The list, headed by leading cancer specialist Leon Schwartzenberg, was  registered last Friday and managed to put the war in Bosnia at the centre of  the campaign.
Levy said the intellectuals would "not go to a vote" but would "continue  to campaign." He added they would "pursue other forms of action" and had  decided to set up a national committee to be known as "Vigilance Sarajevo."
In practice the Sarajevo list has not been formally withdrawn but the  group will not print any ballot papers for the poll, to be held in France on  June 12.
According to electoral laws concerning the elections, any group that  registered for the poll could have withdrawn its list up until last Friday at  8:00 p.m. by presenting a document to that effect signed by a majority of the  candidates involved.
That means that the Sarajevo list is still technically in the race and can  legally benefit from air time attributed to each group registered for the poll.
The intellectuals had threatened to stand if mainstream politicians did  not meet a number of conditions, notably by demanding an immediate end to the  arms embargo on former Yugoslavia in favour of the Bosnian Moslems alone.
They also demanded that candidates reject the European Union's partition  plan for Bosnia allocating 51 percent of the territory to a Croat-Moslem  federation and 49 percent to Bosnian Serbs.
Opposition Socialist Party leader Michel Rocard, who appeared the most  vulnerable to the Sarajevo list, was the only major politician to meet the  intellectuals' conditions.
The names on the list came in for an avalanche of criticism from both  right-wing politicians and from other intellectuals.
Historians Pierre Vidal-Naquet and Pierre Chaunu accused the pro-Bosnians  of "blowing hot air" while writer Regis Debray, a one-time advisor to  President Francois Mitterrand, said they would only deserve "his respect" if  "they backed their words with deeds and went off to fight in Bosnia."
Foreign Minister Alain Juppe, whom was criticised by Levy for his "policy  of capitulation" called him a "festival strategist," an allusion to Levy's  documentary film Bosna shown at the Cannes film festival.
The Sarajevo list was credited with between seven and 12 percent of the  vote in two opinion polls published last week, but dropped to four percent in  the latest poll published on Sunday.
