Labour leaders, supported by academics and some  politicians here, say Hong Kong workers are being made to pay the price for  economic integration with China even ahead of the 1997 changeover of  sovereignty.
They say moves to increase the number of mainland Chinese working in the  territory will increase unemployment and, inevitably, drive down wages.
Concerns in labour circles have been heightened by the Hong Kong  Government's recent announcement of a programme to import 1,000 recent  graduates from China to work as management trainees.
The government said it is a pilot programme, and, having met an  overwhelming response from employers here, there is already talk of expanding  it.
But the general secretary of the Hong Kong Confederation of Trade Unions  said the programme should be stopped in the name of fairness. "It will be  disastrous to the workforce of 2.7 million people in Hong Kong," said Lee  Cheuk-yan.
Lee said "workers in Hong Kong have not really enjoyed the prosperity" of  the territory in recent years, with wages barely keeping up with inflation  despite average annual economic growth in the range of five to six percent.
The hundreds of thousands of factory jobs lost in Hong Kong as most of the  territory's industry relocated in low-wage southern China over the last decade  has exerted a downward pressure on the wages of many, said Lee, although  unemployment is officially pegged at only two percent.
Moreover, there have been about 23,000 mainland Chinese labourers working  in Hong Kong for the past two years on temporary permits, and some 10,000  employees of Chinese-owned firms here on special visas.
But Lee said the new labour importation programme was qualitatively  different as it meant competition, for the first time, not for relatively  poorly-paid labouring jobs but for the white collar positions the colony's  young people aspire to.
Saying the programme would "exploit the local workforce," Legislator Lau  Chin-shek, of the pro-democracy United Democrats of Hong Kong party, has led  opposition to the programme, calling it an attempt by the government to try  "to shift responsiblity for the high inflation rate to employees."
As foreign contract labourers are usually paid less than the prevailing  local rate, Lau said, "so mainland professionals will be too."
Ng Shek-hong, a management studies lecturer at the University of Hong  Kong, agreed, saying the programme could dissuade many Hong Kong  undergraduates from taking up business administration courses.
But the government and its business supporters argue that with Hong Kong  and the mainland essentially one economic unit even ahead of China's takeover  in three years, an increased labour flow should be encouraged.
The government's position is that the labour importation programme would  not hurt Hong Kong workers and would ultimately spur more economic and  employment growth here.
The programme, said City Polytechnic social sciences department head  Joseph Cheng, "is a natural development, due to economic complements between  Hong Kong and China."
But Lee said that based on the record so far of China's growing economic  role in Hong Kong -- it is the biggest property investor here, a major player  on the stock market and controls some 1,000 companies -- local workers cannot  expect much benefit.
Chinese firms are largely staffed with mainlanders -- often the children  or other relatives of top communist party officials such as supreme leader  Deng Xiaoping, and "even bring in their own security guards, said Lee.
Also worried by Hong Kong's increasingly close ties to China's labour  market are tens of thousands of unskilled foreign workers; the 113,000  Filipinos in the territory, many of them domestics, make up the largest group  of expatriates.
British concerns over security have limited the number of mainlanders  coming to Hong Kong, but with the Union Jack due to come down in three years  the Filipinos and other foreign labourers fear many of their jobs will be lost  to Cantonese-speaking workers eager to take jobs even at lower wages.
