Dundee United's Serbian manager Ivan Golac hopes  his unswerving faith will rub off on his players when they face treble chasers  Glasgow Rangers in the Scottish FA Cup Final on Saturday.
On the face of it the Tannadice club barely have a straw to clutch at.
A modest season, in which they finished sixth to the Ibrox champions, is  hardly put into brighter perspective by six defeats in their six previous  finals, compared with the Gers' 26 Cups, including successes in the last two  seasons.
But whether through bravado or unfathomable conviction, the phlegmatic  Golac
only speaks of victory. And he expects the same approach from his players.
He says: "I don't listen to those who say United can't win a cup final.
"People have been too negative in the past and that's why there was no  success. If you don't believe in yourself, you can't be successful.
"Football is all about big occasions and the Scottish Cup final is one of  the biggest, but I would like to see my team win in style and become a joy to  watch both in Scotland and in Europe."
"Joy" is the cornerstone of Golac's football philosophy, with walks in the  park, afternoon teas, and the occcasional drink of something stronger very  much part of the big match preparation.
He says: "We are part of the most beautiful business in the world, but you  can't play well under pressure.
"Football is a game of fun and enjoyment. There are so many nice things in  life and whatever you do you should enjoy it; and it is the nice side of life  I like to show my players."
One man, who has found joy in the alien environment of Tayside, is  Trinidadian international Jerren Nixon.
After months cutting a dash through the icy Scottish climate in his now  famous woollen gloves, the lightning-quick striker is looking forward to  basking in the heat of the big occasion.
The man Golac rates, only half tongue-in-cheek, in the 10 million pounds  bracket, said: "After the disappointments in the past I think we will do the  business this time.
"Records are made to be broken and the boys are confident we can win the  game."
United will pin hopes for a change in fortune on Serbian defender Gordan  Petric, who was a winner in two of the three finals he played for former club  Partizan Belgrade.
