Rain, lightning and wild winds  wreaked havoc on the LPGA Championship Thursday, leaving two golfers, Alice  Ritzman and Dottie Mochrie, sharing the lead with three still stranded on the  course.
Ritzman has never won a tournament in 17 years on the LPGA Tour. She  carded a three-under 68 to share the lead with Dottie Mochrie, on a day in  which only 16 of 141 golfers carded par or better.
Golfers with early tee times played in the rain. Later thunderstorms  stopped play for two hours, and after the break strong, chilly winds caused  scores to balloon.
"I kind of weathered the storm," said Mochrie, who was on the last hole  when play was suspended. "It wasn't an easy day to play."
France's Anne-Marie Palli was disqualified for practicing during the rain  delay. Three other golfers withdrew: Nancy Lopez with a lower back injury,  Spain's Tania Abitbol with a wrist problem and Sandra Palmer after allergies  contributed to a disappointing 40 on her first nine holes.
Lopez, winner of three LPGA Championships, said she did not want to  jeopardize her season by playing through the injury.
"It was useless," said Lopez, who started on teh back nine with a bogey  and double bogey. "If I did keep swinging, it could have gotten worse. I want  to finish the rest of the year."
Mochrie remained steady in the face of the upheaval. She made 15 pars,  with birdies at five, 12, and 15.
"I think I played three different courses," she said. "The first holes in  downpour, then the wind, and then the storm. With all that, I'm pleased with  the way I played."
Ritzman, 42, got to 68 in different fashion. Opening on the back nine she  birdied the 11th and bogeyed the next from less than two feet.
She chipped in from 69 feet for a birdie at 17, and added three birdies  and a bogey on the front nine.
"The wind was strong and gusting," she said. "The conditions were pretty  tough. You had to maintain your patience to get the job done."
Juli Inkster and Noelle Daghe were one shot behind the leaders, and  England's Laura Davies was in a group of five on 70.
The three players still on the course when darkness fell were to complete  the round Friday morning.
bb94
