The European Union might not sign an important  international energy charter treaty unless changes are made to its trade and  investment elements, the EU warned in a statement issued here Tuesday.
The EU called for changes to be made in a draft treaty -- negotiated over  the past three years by 50 countries including the United States and Japan --  which is to be presented for final approval at a conference here next month.
The treaty seeks to involve western private enterprise and technology in  rehabilitating the oil and gas industries of the former Soviet Union.
It aims at giving foreign investors a stable and legally satisfactory  environment for operating in Russia and the other countries of the  Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).
The Greek chairman of the EU council of foreign ministers, Theodoros  Pangalos, said the council had adopted a joint position on Tuesday "which  should contribute significantly" to finalising the negotiations.
But the statement spotlighted a stumbling block -- the EU's suspicion that  the treaty could be used to justify the dumping of cheap Russian uranium on  the European market, or to challenge German and Spanish coal subsidies.
The draft treaty states that trade rules of the General Agreement on  Tariffs and Trade (GATT) should apply to energy-related trade and investment  for all the signatories, whether or not they are GATT members.
But the European Union is pressing for an amendment saying that this rule  should not override existing EU regulations or prospective treaties with other  countries such as an EU partnership accord with Russia.
The accord with Russia, expected to be signed next month, is being held up  by French efforts to restrain cheap Russian uranium exports to the EU.
Officials said Spain and Germany also wanted an assurance that their  subsidies to national coal industries would not be challenged by the charter's  free market principles.
But the EU ministers said the draft energy charter treaty was in general a  "sound basis" for final negotiations.
They said the treaty was important "not only for the future economic  development of the European continent, but also for global political  stability."
