Malawi's parliament on Monday passed a new  interim constitution the very day before multi-party elections set to end  three decades of paternalistic rule by veteran President Kamuzu Banda.
Justice Minister Lovemore Munlo presented the constitutional bill to 141  members of parliament from Banda's ruling Malawi Congress Party, in a special  one-day session convened before 3.8 million Malawians are called to the polls.
Munlo, who is also attorney-general, said the constitution was written and  adopted by the all-party national consultative council (NCC) formed during a  two-year transition to democracy and approved by Banda's 22-member cabinet.
"The document is the final result of compromises in the NCC," Muno told  MPs in parliament in the impoverished southern African nation's former,  traditional capital, Zomba.
The constitution replaces the one of 1966, when Malawi became independent,  which favoured one-party rule.
Munlo said a period of between six to 12 months after the new government  takes power will be left for a national debate on the interim constitution,  before a final text is hammered out.
He said the new, pluralist parliament, which will have 177 members, will  appoint a committee of MPs to oversee the debate and receive public comment.
The interim constitution severely limits the powers of the president, in a  major contrast to the supreme powers accorded to Banda in the old constitution.
It provides for the establishment of a human rights commission to protect  and investigate violations of human rights and a national compensation  tribunal to entertain claims of alleged criminal and civil liability.
Banda, who officially turned 89 on Saturday but is believed to be well  into his nineties, is standing at the polls against five other candidates, in  spite of brain surgery last year and a recent leg ailment during the campaign.
One-time declared "president-for-Life", he was forced last year to bow to  the introduction of multi-party politics after a referendum and pressure for  change initiated by outspoken opponent and trade unionist Chakufwa Chihana in  March 1992.
Tipped to win a presidential poll taking place with the general election  is former Banda aide Bakili Muluzi, head of the United Democratic Front (UDF).
