Powerful crime syndicates are muscling in on the  booming real estate business in India's financial capital, leaving a trail of  murders in their wake.
Three high-profile killings, all linked to the high stakes involved in the  property trade, have taken place in Bombay in the past two weeks.
The latest victim, Vijay Akhtar, was shot dead in his office by three  unidentified gunmen on May 17, a few days after another builder, Jayantilal  Bajaj, was killed outside his house in the upmarket Bandra area.
Police said Bajaj was killed by rivals eyeing his one billion rupee (33  million dollar) shopping mall.
But the most publicised murder was that of textile tycoon Sunit Khatau,  the scion of one of India's oldest textile fortunes who was shot on May 7 at a  traffic intersection in central Bombay, a few kilometres away from his  century-old mill.
Police said the alleged killers, arrested within a week, are members of a  gang run by mobster Amar Naik. The mobster allegedly wanted to kill the  industrialist after Khatau recruited his gangland rival, Arun Gawli, to coerce  Khatau's 4,000 employees to agree to relocate the downtown mill to suburban  Bombay.
Newspapers said Khatau could have sold the prime property for three  billion rupees (100 million dollars).
In 1991 the state government changed urban land laws to favour property  developers and landholders.
The 100-year-old city textile mills, most of which have fallen on hard  times, were immediate beneficiaries. The owners of some 6O units occupying  prime space in south-central Bombay suddenly found themselves sitting on a  goldmine.
Prices have spiralled as developers, speculators and corporate houses  moved to cash in.
Builders and developers are afraid to speak openly of the extent of mob  penetration of the business but most agree that it is now impossible to start  a building project without underworld protection.
"The gangsters are everywhere. They have links with politicians, the  police and municipal officials. They find out what you are up to and what  projects you have," said a prominent builder who spoke on condition of  anonymity.
"They come to you as soon as you begin construction and promise to see that  works proceeds smoothly. In return they ask for a percentage of the market  value of the project," he said.
"If you do not toe the line you will find obstacles .... sometimes your  workers are terrorised. Almost everybody pays up," he said, adding that his  recalcitrant brother was killed by gangsters a few months ago.
Developers said cumbersome procedures for official approvals of buildings  also encouraged the underworld, which promises to speed things up.
"Some 54 licenses from a plethora of agencies are needed before starting a  construction project in Bombay," said Ashok Patil, who heads Godrej Properties  and Investments Ltd -- a prominent real estate firm.
Soon after the Khatau murder, the Maharashtra state government banned mill  owners from selling their land in the city.
"Since underworld forces have entered the scene, the government has been  forced to withdraw the permission granted earlier," said Chief Minister Sharad  Pawar.
