A senior Thai official said Tuesday the United  States may sour its economic relationship with Asia and the Pacific if it  continues to link trade agreements to human rights.
"I have tried to communicate that if they persist, we will persist in  putting ourselves against their standard," Thai Deputy Prime Minister Supachai  Panichpakdi said Tuesday.
"I think that is the feeling throughout Asia," said Suphachai, who  represented Thailand at both the Uruguay and Marrakesh rounds of the General  Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
The United States has drawn fire from this region for making some trade  agreements contingent on human rights protection, a stipulation that is  independent of the GATT agreements.
Late last week, US President Bill Clinton announced he would reinstate  China's Most Favored Nation (MFN) trading status after months of hitches over  human rights.
Tuesday, Supachai said the United States should stop pressuring smaller  Asian countries or it would "not make friends" with ASEAN or be "a popular  economic partner in Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)."
Human rights have become a sticking point with several members of the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), a forum that includes Brunei,  Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and which Thailand currently  chairs.
Thailand is on a US priority-watch list for its failure to protect  intellectual property rights here. But Washington has also criticized  Thailand's lack of labor rights, Supachai said.
Thailand allows limited labor unions, but members are not allowed to  strike.
Supachai said the Thai government has improved labor representation in the  past two years by lifting the previous ban on unions and creating a Labor  Ministry. "And still they say 'You should allow as many labor unions as  possible'," said Supachai.
Similar complaints were heard during a conference in early May between  Assistant US Secretary of State Winston Lord and representatives of several  ASEAN countries, including Indonesia.
Indonesia, citing US charges that it had violently broken up workers'  strikes, said Washington seemed to "ignore" its attempts to improve conditions.
One of Lord's deputies, Thomas Hubbard, reiterated in Bangkok last week  that the United States would continue to stress human rights in its dealings  with the Asia-Pacific region.
"We think some issues, such as human rights, are important, and we will  continue to raise them," he said.
He said the United States dislikes Thailand's decision to invite Burma as  an unofficial observer, or guest of the host country, at the July meeting of  ASEAN foreign ministers in Bangkok.
"We don't think they earned that seat," Hubbard said, citing Burma's human  rights record.
Supachai said continued US emphasis on human rights would tempt a direct  political confrontation.
"Collectively, ASEAN will be waiting," he said. "If it remains like this  until September, when we have a meeting of ASEAN economic ministers in Chiang  Mai (northern Thailand), we may have to put something in writing."
APEC, which counts Japan among its members, may do likewise during its  October meet in Jakarta, Supachai said.
"At end of the year, some of our (ASEAN) leaders may have to take up the  issue directly with President Clinton," he added.
