US lawmakers voted against a US military  invasion of Haiti Tuesday but backed the use of a tiny Haitian island as a  base for exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
The non-binding resolution, adopted 223-201 by the House of  Representatives, comes as tension is rising in Haitian waters. US warships  fired warning shots at ships suspected of smuggling goods in violation of the  UN embargo on Port-au-Prince.
The measure, sponsored by Florida Republican Porter Goss as an amendment  to a defense bill, opposed the use of US military force to restore Haiti's  democracy unless there is a "clear and present danger to US interests or  citizens."
It also supported the use of Isle de la Gonave off the Haitian mainland as  a US asylum request screening center and a base of operation for Aristide, who  has lived in Washington for more than two years.
The Haitian army presence on the island is minimal.
"The Goss amendment puts the House on record," said Republican Benjamin  Gilman of New York. "It should be on record in recognizing other options  (than) the use of military force."
President Bill Clinton has said he would not rule out the use of force if  Haiti's army rulers do not step aside and allow the reinstatement of Aristide,  the country's first democratically elected president, toppled in a September  1991 military coup.
Earlier, the White House announced that US warships had fired warning  shots at two vessels off the coast of Haiti as part of the enforcement of the  international embargo on Haiti, but said one of them still broke the blockade.
The latest incident involved a Panamanian-flagged ship that was stopped by  the US Coast Guard late Monday and boarded Tuesday, said White House  spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers.
On Saturday, a Bahamian-registered vessel, "Sea Search," ignored warnings  fired across its bow from the US Navy sip Aubrey Fitch and slipped past the  blockade into port, said Defense Department spokesman Dennis Boxx.
Myers said the Bahamian vessel was too close to shore to take action.
"It is still in port and we're ascertaining what to do about it there,"  she said.
The embargo is being enforced by eight US warships as well as two frigates  from Argentina and Canada.
Boxx said since last October, 1,005 vessels had been stopped for  inspection and 81 turned back,
Since a near-total embargo was imposed over the weekend, 14 vessels have  been stopped and turned back, with 10 allowed to pass.
The embargo is based on UN Security Council resolution 917, which gave the  leadership of the Haitian military 15 days to step down or face an embargo on  everything but food, medicine, books, news materials and commercial airline  flights.
The White House acknowledged the UN embargo against Haiti was being  circumvented by smuggling from the Dominican Republic and said Clinton's  special Haiti envoy William Gray would travel to Santo Domingo to discuss the  matter.
In Port-au-Prince, the US embassy expressed concern about reports of rapes  being carried out as part of the military regime's campaign of political  repression.
A US statement said the 12 rapes, reported by a United  Nations-Organization of American States rights monitoring panel, were  committed by members of the armed forces and FRAPH, a right-wing political  force with close ties to the military.
The commission, which was in Haiti last week, also reported 133 political  murders and other serious human rights abuses committed by the military.
