Russia reacted frostily Thursday as a new European  plan for averting conflicts over border and minority disputes in eastern  Europe came under the spotlight at an international summit here.
Separately, in a further sign of the European Union looking east, French  Prime Minister Edouard Balladur and German Chancellor Helmut Kohl proposed  that would-be EU members in eastern Europe be invited to attend union summits.
Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, addressing a two-day,  53-delegation conference on European stability, welcomed the French-conceived  blueprint for snuffing out potential wars over border disputes or minority  treatment.
He called it "yet another effort to come to grips seriously with the  extremely dangerous signs of aggressive nationalism, xenophobia, and ethnic  and religious intolerance" in Europe.
The mechanism calls for elaborating a stability pact for would-be EU  candidates within roughly a year. In the meantime, two regional "round tables"  of discussion would be formed -- one on the presence of Russian troops in  Latvia and Estonia and Russian speakers in all three Baltic countries, and the  other on large Hungarian minorities in Romania and Slovakia.
But even while praising the plan, Kozyrev also seemed to question the  usefulness of the round tables, saying they might duplicate the work of bodies  like the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
Instead, he insisted, the focus should be "to concentrate on specific  steps to improve inter-ethnic relations and to ensure the rights of national  minorities."
"This is especially necessary for the three Baltic states -- Estonia,  Latvia and Lithuania," he added.
He said discussion of border and minority issues "should take place  exclusively in the framework established by CSCE documents."
The conference at UNESCO headquarters left aside hotspots such as Bosnia  and the Caucasus, concentrating instead on other conflicts that could  resurface from Europe's past.
The stability pact is Balladur's brainchild but has been embraced by the  EU as part of its common foreign policy.
In his other initiative, in a joint opinion column Thursday in the daily Le  Monde, Balladur joined with Kohl in proposing that would-be EU members from  eastern and central Europe be invited to attend union summit meetings.
Because the process of enlargement would be "long and difficult," the two  leaders proposed inviting leaders of candidate countries to attend EU summits  once a year to discuss "questions of joint interest and to further our  cooperation."
A successful outcome to the stability pact proposal would help Balladur in  French presidential elections due in May 1995, analysts said. But the pact  project is less ambitious than when the prime minister launched it a year ago  as he took office.
It is now limited to preventing potential conflict. The war in Bosnia,  Balladur said as he opened the conference, "is a veritable lesson of what we  must no longer tolerate."
The pact would incorporate existing good-neighbour agreements, such as  recognition of the Oder-Neisse frontier between Germany and Poland, and new  accords to be reached in the interval, Balladur said.
There are 10 countries most concerned by the stability pact: Poland, the  Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania -- and the three  Baltic countries - Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. Only one country that  emerged from former Yugoslavia, Slovenia, was invited to the summit, although  Croatia and Bosnia are here as observers.
Besides the Russian minority and troop withdrawal issue in the Baltics,  the stability pact would address large Hungarian minorities in Romania (1.6  million) and Slovakia (600,000).
Budapest is anxious to protect their rights to autonomy, notably in the  cultural field, while the Romanian and Slovakian governments are seeking  Hungarian acceptance of the inviolability of existing borders.
