Guerrilla chief Mustafa Dirani was abducted by  Israel only to gain information about missing airman Ron Arad and not to be  used in a trade, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said Saturday.
"The aim was solely to obtain information on the fate of the pilot who was  captured by Dirani's men," Rabin told reporters.
Pro-Iranian Dirani, 46, was abducted by Israeli commandos in a pre-dawn  raid on his home in the village of Qsarnabaa in the Syrian-controlled Bekaa  valley in eastern Lebanon.
Israel holds Dirani responsible for the capture of Arad, still missing  after his plane was shot down over south Lebanon in 1986 during an Israeli  bombing raid of a Palestinian refugee camp.
He is one of six soldiers missing between 1982 and 1986, but the only one  thought to be still alive.
Dirani was the second Moslem fundamentalist abducted by Israelis in  Lebanon since Sheikh Abdel Karim Obeid was snatched in an almost identical  operation, set up by Rabin in 1989 when he was defence minister.
Rabin said he had hoped then that Obeid could be used as a trade for Arad.
"But today we don't nuture any longer such illusions," he said.
He revealed that Saturday's raid had been ready several months ago, but  that Israel had hoped to get news of Arad through diplomatic channels.
When that failed, the inner cabinet "unanimously approved the operation,"  Rabin said, adding they had no confirmation whether Arad was alive or dead.
Meanwhile Israeli Chief-of-Staaf Ehud Barak said one Israeli soldier was  slightly wounded in the raid, when shots were fired in the direction of the  commandos as they were leaving.
He said the commandos had completely surprised Dirani who "did not even  have the time to pull out his pistol from under his pillow."
Numerous documents as well as weapons were seized in the raid, he added.
The unit was also under orders not "to avoid as far as possible firing on  villagers" and "not to get involved in clashes with the Syrian army" deployed  in the area.
