Japan's biggest opposition Liberal Democratic Party  (LDP) vowed Tuesday to submit a no-confidence motion against Prime Minister  Tsutomu Hata's cabinet after the passage of a long-pending state budget.
"It is not a cabinet reflecting the popular will," LDP secretary general  Yoshiro Mori told a news conference. "When the budget is passed, the cabinet's  duty will be over."
Hata took office at the head of Japan's first minority government in 39  years on April 28 as the Social Democratic Party, grouping a wide range of  socialists, bolted the nine-month-old ruling coalition following the creation  of a rival bloc.
The LDP, which lost its 38-year grip on power last year, and the SDP  together control 280 seats in the 511-seat lower house.
A financial scandal over Hata's predecessor, Morihiro Hosokawa, combined  with infighting within the coalition over policy differences, has delayed the  passage of the state budget, now six weeks overdue.
It took two weeks for the coalition to choose a successor to Hosokawa who  resigned over the scandal.
Meanwhile the Socialists decided not to join the LDP in pressing an  immediate resolution to oust a key parliamentary official from the ruling  coalition.
The official, Keiwa Okuda, is chairman of the house management committee  and is charged with deciding whether to accept no-confidence motions.
The LDP wanted to take over the post from the coalition to regain control  over parliamentary business. But some Socialist deputies consider the move  unjust since Okuda has not made any mistakes on the job.
SDP chairman Tomiichi Murayama said the party would delay a decision on  whether to support the move against Okuda. "We will take time in studying the  matter cautiously," he told reporters.
Hata in the meantime called on LDP president Yohei Kono and secured his  support for passage of the budget, party officials said.
But Kono reminded Hata that his government was a "minority government  created under abnormal circumstances," according to the officials.
