France's state-controlled Credit Lyonnais bank  ordered businessman-turned-politician Bernard Tapie Thursday to repay debts of  450 million francs (80 million dollars) within a week or risk losing his house  and works of art.
Also Thursday reliable sources said that for the second time in two days  investigating magistrates had demanded the lifting of Tapie's parliamentary  immunity to face charges of tax fraud concerning his private yacht.
On Tuesday another judicial official sought removal of the immunity so  that Tapie could be charged with embezzling funds from the Tahiti-based  company which bought and operates the yacht.
Dominique Bazy, a member of the Credit Lyonnais board, said Thursday that  Tapie had been given seven days to repay the 450 million francs or the bank  would seek to have his sumptuous Paris mansion and collection of antique  furniture and artworks sold.
Bazy said the 450 million francs is part of a 1.2 billion francs (212  million dollars) owed to Credit Lyonnais by Tapie and his companies.
The heavily loss-making bank reached a five-year rescheduling agreement on  the loans with Tapie in March, but moved last week to recover some of the  funds more quickly after other big creditors, including French tax  authorities, emerged.
"The money owed to the taxman is doubtless substantial and consequently we  no longer have a mortgage on all of Tapie's assets," Bazy said.
The tax authorities have priority in claiming money from debtors.
Bazy also said the bank moved to seize Tapie's goods after the businessman  failed to provide a detailed inventory of his belongings as required under the  March agreemement.
Tapie, a member of the French National Assembly who has announced plans to  run for mayor of Marseilles, heads the campaign by the Mouvement des Radicaux  de Gauche (MRG - centre-left radicals) for elections to the European  parliament in June.
He is expected to be elected and would then benefit from a second  parliamentary immunity.
Tapie has charged that the bank's moves against him are politically  motivated and designed to undermine his group's European election campaign.
Thursday's developments were only the latest in a series of legal blows to  Tapie, a self-made millionaire and former minister, involving both his complex  web of business holdings and his Olympiques Marseille soccer club -- which was  relegated to France's second division earlier this year over a game-rigging  scandal and is in deep financial trouble.
In the past 10 days, legal authorities, tax officials and customs services  have begun to take a close look at his 74-metre (240-foot) yacht, the "Phocea."
He has specifically been accused of avoiding tax payments by declaring the  yacht a commercial vessel and for illegally maintaining it with funds from  other companies in his group.
Authorities have opened enquiries, or laid charges, against Tapie for  allegedly misusing assets of his Testut weighing-machine company, for fraud in  connection with the accounts of the Marseilles football club and for  corrupting witnesses over the alleged match-rigging.
Tapie has denied all charges of wrongdoing.
The Credit Lyonnais recently reported nearly seven billion francs (1.3  billion dollars) massive losses.
Bazy said that if Tapie's debt was not paid on time, an order could be  made on June 3 for the seizure of the furniture and works of art, which  reliable sources say have an estimated value of 300-400 million francs. The  order would take effect a month later.
Bazy said that Tapie owed the bank a total of 1.221 billion francs and  that the next deadline for a repayment, of 150 million francs, fell at the end  of June. The money is owed to the SDBO subsidiary of the Credit Lyonnais.
