A visit by Emperor Akihito to Pearl Harbor, site of  Japan's surprise attack on a US fleet in 1941 which brought America into World  War II, was formally dropped Friday from his upcoming US tour.
Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata's cabinet approved an itinerary for the June  10-26 tour of 11 US cities which excludes an earlier plan for the emperor and  Empress Michiko to visit the USS Arizona National Memorial at Pearl Harbor.
In what was widely seen as a diplomatic blunder, the government last week  called off the plan which had provoked fears among conservatives that the  emperor would be forced to apologise for the attack.
Instead, the royal couple will lay a wreath at the Punch Bowl national  cemetery for those killed during the war rather than just in the Pearl Harbor  raid, on the final stop of their US tour. The cemetery is on a hill  overlooking the harbor in Hawaii's Oahu Island.
The raid on December 7, 1941, was launched before Japan's declaration of  war against the United States, killing 2,403 servicemen and destroying scores  of US ships and aircraft, including the USS Arizona.
"Punch Bowl is a resting place for a wide section of victims of the  Pacific War, including victims of the Pearl Harbor attack and the government  regards it the most suitable," an official at the imperial household agency  told Japanese reporters.
The emperor and empress would have laid a wreath and expressed their  condolences for the victims of the raid if they visited the USS Arizona  memorial.
In that event, Akihito would have been forced to acknowledge Japan's  responsibility for what was seen as a "sneak attack" and apologise for it on  behalf of the Japanese government.
It would have run foul of the emperor's status which has been reduced to a  non-political, symbolic role by Japan's post-war pacifist constitution.
Emperor Akihito, 60, visited Pearl Harbor and paid tribute to the war dead  in 1960 when he was crown prince.
His father, late Emperor Hirohito, who was Japan's military commander in  chief during the war, travelled to the island of Hawaii as part of an  unprecedented US tour in 1975, but did not go to Pearl Harbor.
On the upcoming 190 million yen (1.8 million dollar) US tour, the emperor  and empress will be accompanied by an entourage led by former prime minister  Kiichi Miyazawa.
It will take them to 11 US cities and include meetings with US President  Bill Clinton in Washington and UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali in  New York.
The couple will also meet former US president Jimmy Carter and Coretta  Scott King, the widow of US civil rights campaign leader Martin Luther King  Jr., in Atlanta.
They will also watch a major league baseball game in St. Louis and meet  former president Ronald Reagan in Los Angeles.
