But the iron fist is disguised by a velvet glove in the form of the classy  midfielders Fernando Hierro, of Real Madrid, and Josep Guardiola, and Spain  should make it to the second round after providing defending champions Germany  with an early test. The other sides in their group C are Bolivia and South  Korea.
If Spain have a weakness it is up front. The hero of the qualification was  Julio Salinas. His seven goals saved Clemente's job but were not enough to get  him into the Barcelona team. His forward partners, Juan Castano, or 'Juanele'  of Sporting Gijon and Tenerife's Felipe Minambres are unknown outside Spain.
Salinas, who will be appearing in his third finals, is one of two  survivors from the team that lost to Yugoslavia in the second round in Italy.
The other is Zubizarreta, Spain's most capped player. "Zubi" was not sure  of his place in the Barcelona side at the beginning of the season.
But he finished it in superb form and has put the Seville nightmare --  when his professional foul on clubmate Michael Laudrup could, and should, have  cost Spain their finals place -- behind him.
Clemente's emphasis on youth has also paid off with two of the young  mildfielders who helped Spain lift the Olympic gold last summer, Barcelona's  Guardiola and Athletic Bilbao's Julen Guerrero, 20, emerging as major talents  this season.
Guerrero, who became Spain's second-youngest capped player when he made  his debut against Mexico last January, has already scored four times with the  national side's red shirt on his back.
Guardiola has established himself as the midfield lynchpin at Barcelona  and he will be aiming to compensate for his club's humiliation by AC Milan in  the European Cup final.
Spain factfile
Manager: Javier Clemente
Spanish federation: Founded 1913 - 10,240 clubs - 408,135 players
National colours: Red shirt, blue shorts, black socks
Key players: Andoni Zubizarreta, Julio Salinas, Josep Guardiola, Miguel  Angel Nadal, Fernando Hierro
World Cup: 9th appearance. Semi-finalists in 1950, quarter-finalists in  1986.
How they qualified : top of European group three ahead of the Republic of  Ireland.
