Ukraine is playing on Western fears of a nuclear  catastrophe by asking for a "greatly exaggerated" sum of money to close down  its dangerous Chernobyl nuclear power plant, an EU official said here on  Tuesday.
He was reacting to Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Valery Shmarov, who had  said on Monday that his country would need foreign aid of between six billion  and eight billion dollars to shut Chernobyl down -- more than double Kiev's  previous estimate.
The EU official said it was generally agreed that just 1.5 billion dollars  was needed to complete three new nuclear power stations necessary to replace  Chernobyl, which supplies the Ukrainian capital with most of its energy.
"The Ukrainian authorities are raising the stakes by playing on Western  fears about Chernobyl," he said.
Chernobyl was the site of the world's worst civil nuclear accident when  one of its four reactors exploded in 1986, releasing a huge radioactive cloud.
Russian scientist Vladimir Chernusenko said in an official report last  week that 15 million people of the former Soviet Union would die from  radiation over the next 10 years because of the Chernobyl disaster, and many  others abroad.
Two Chernobyl reactors are still in use. The Ukrainian authorities are  planning to reactivate a third one because, they say, Ukraine has a severe  energy shortage and wants to reduce dependence on Russian energy.
Western governments want the plant closed down for good as a massive  health hazard and are offering to help carry the financial costs of  replacements.
The question of how much the West is willing to pay is likely to head the  agenda of a G-7 summit of industrialised countries in Naples in July, where  Japan and the United States will be asked to help the EU find the money.
Ukraine has launched a programme to build five modern new nuclear reactors  and the EU says it is ready to help carry the 1.5 billion dollar cost of  finishing three of them, on condition that Chernobyl is closed down for good.
Ukraine estimated earlier that it would need 1.2 billion dollars for the  new nuclear stations, plus one billion dollars to train staff and another  billion dollars for a new concrete shell over Chernobyl's smashed Number Four  reactor.
Shmarov gave no details for more than doubling this estimate just as the  west was getting ready to help find the money.
The two RMBK-1000 nuclear reactors still in use at Chernobyl are  considered the most dangerous and outdated of 14 Soviet-built reactors in  service at five nuclear power stations in Ukraine.
The EU has acknowledged that Ukraine is in desperate need of help to prop  up a sharply-declining economy and avoid social breakdown.
The EU is expected to sign a new trade, cooperation and partnership  agreement with Kiev next month, and is also planning other forms of economic  aid including help with closing down Chernobyl.
