Southern leaders appealed to the Arab world Saturday  for help in ending Yemen's 10-day-old civil war after troops loyal to Yemeni  President Ali Abdallah Saleh seized the strategic town of Daleh.
Thousands of people mainly women, children and the elderly, demonstrated  in Aden, calling for an immediate end to the fighting, an AFP correspondent  reported.
Many brandished photos of ousted vice president Ali Salem al-Baid, a  southerner, and shouted anti-Saleh slogans.
Local and foreign journalists taken to Daleh, which lies 90 kilometres (55  miles) from the southern stronghold of Aden, confirmed it was held by northern  troops.
The frontline was reported to have shifted slighty south of the town as  northern troops continued their push towards Aden amid heavy fighting.
Meanwhile a group of southern organisations in Aden called on the Arab  League to "intervene directly and quickly to end the fighting."
It urged the League to protect "towns and citizens against all acts of  aggression."
But in Cairo League General Secretary Esmat Abdel Meguid ruled out any  early Arab summit to discuss the crisis. Last week a League emergency meeting  turned down an Egyptian proposal to send an Arab peacekeeping force to Yemen.
An Arab League delegation has been in Yemen since Thursday trying to  broker a ceasefire between Saleh and Baid.
It was also to deliver to Saleh a call from Meguid for an immediate  ceasefire. It was hoped the meeting would be held later Saturday.
Journalists in Aden said fighting was now raging five kilometres (three  miles) south of Daleh, scene of heavy bombing raids as southern airplanes  tried to repel a northern advance.
Earlier southern military officials said their warplanes were carrying out  raid after raid on the Daleh region, where correspondents saw seven northern  soldiers dead on the roadside just outside the town.
Northern officials maintained Saturday they had seized the town of  Al-Musaymir, south of Daleh and only 30 kilometres (18 miles) from the  southern air base at Al-Anad.
Journalists said tank and artillery reinforcements had been deployed in the  Al-Musaymir area to bolster the north's forces. Hundreds of civilians have  meanwhile have fled the fighting for the safety of Aden.
Southern leaders also called on the Arab League to intervene to ensure the  implementation of a reconciliation accord signed between the two sides in  February in Amman.
More than 20 people were killed in clashes which broke out immediately  after the accord was signed in the Jordanian capital.
But a seven-point peace plan put forward late Friday by the southern Yemen  Socialist Party called on the country's leaders not to give up on the  agreement.
The ceasefire plan which called for an immediate end to fighting was  dismissed as "nothing new" by northern leaders, who in turn repeated demands  for the surrender of the "war criminal" Baid.
Meanwhile a military spokesman in Aden said southern troops were fighting  their northern rivals in the streets of Zinjibar, 60 kilometres (36 miles)  east of Aden to "wipe out pockets of resistance."
He added that the south continued to control the situation at Bab  al-Mandab 130 kilometres (80 miles) west of Aden, on the mouth of the Red Sea.
The south's ceasefire plan on Friday also called for the creation of a  national unity government, prisoners releases and for the right of political  parties to be recognised.
In the latest evacuation of foreigners from the war-torn country, more  than 200 nationals of the former Soviet Union arrived Saturday in Moscow on a  flight out of Moscow, the Russian news agency ITAR-TASS said.
The Philippines foreign ministry said at least 619 Filipinos, including 40  children and six pregnant women, were still waiting evacuation from Yemen.
