Palestinian Moslem fundamentalists killed  two Israeli sergeants on reserve duty in bursts of gunfire at an army post on  the edge of the Gaza Strip before dawn Friday, military officials said.
They were the first Jewish soldiers killed since Israel and the PLO signed  an accord on May 4 to launch autonomy.
Three gunmen fired three bursts from a car close to a petrol station and  fled south into the autonomous Palestinian zone of Gaza.
A third soldier shot back at the car, but the army did not give hot  pursuit, the officials said.
And two Israelis driving a garbage truck were lightly wounded when  Palestinians fired shots from a passing car near the settlement of Morag, in  southern Gaza.
The attackers fled toward Khan Yunes town, which is also inside the  self-rule area, the officials said.
Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility for the "heroic" operation which left  the two soldiers dead near the Erez border crossing which is controlled by  Israeli forces.
Several fighters from its Kassam unit had used US M-16 and Israeli Galil  rifles in the attack, Jihad said in a statement to news agencies.
"All the members of the squad returned safely after completing their duty  under God's protection."
Islamic Jihad has vowed to fight on against Israeli occupation despite the  autonomy agreement in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho.
Under the agreement, Israeli forces are responsible for the safety of the  4,000 Jewish settlers on the Gaza Strip while the new Palestinian police  maintains order in the self-rule areas.
An Israeli officer, identified only as Colonel Shaul, told reporters that  contacts had been made with the police to try "to prevent a repetition of such  attacks."
"The Palestinian police has only been deployed for a few days and is  having difficulties getting organized to stop terrorist infiltrations in areas  of the Gaza Strip which are under our control," he said.
The PLO's top negotiator, Nabil Shaath, who arrived in Gaza overnight for  just 24 hours, called for cooperation to ensure peace.
"There will be a few problems and incidents at the beginning, but we hope  to overcome them with patience and cooperation. I am confident that  cooperation will lead to real peace in the region."
Israeli state radio quoted military sources as saying that no forces had  been on the spot to launch an immediate pursuit after the killers.
The sources went on to say that so far the Palestinians were "incapable of  controlling the situation."
Some 3,000 policeman have entered the Strip already in the last two weeks.
"Armed activists from HAMAS move around freely on the Gaza Strip without  police intervening," the radio claimed, referring to the Islamic Resistance  Movement.
Israeli troops protect three main settlement areas, including the Erez  industrial and settlement zone in the north of the strip.
A senior official with the mainstream PLO movement Fatah complained that  there were too many Israeli soldiers still on Gaza's roads.
"There should be no more attacks like this," Hisham Abdel Razzek said.
"But the Palestinian people, who thought that the occupation was over,  sees that there are still soldiers on the roads around settlements and they  are carrying out humiliating identity checks," he told the radio.
He said the 20 Jewish settlements still in Gaza were "the main obstacle to  peace."
"There is no reason why soldiers should be deployed on the roads to guard  for example a handful of families in Ketzarim."
The settlement in the middle of Gaza is home to barely 30 families and is  isolated from the main blocks of Jewish occupation, but it is protected by a  sizeable army force at great cost.
On Tuesday, HAMAS shot dead two Israeli settlers and seriously wounded a  third south of the West Bank town of Hebron.
The last soldier killed by Palestinians was found dead in East Jerusalem  on April 21.
Friday's deaths pushed to 226 the number of Israelis killed by  Palestinians since the uprising or intifada began in December 1987.
