Police probing the serial killing of seven  backpackers, five of them foreign tourists, charged a man with armed hold-up  and firearm offences Sunday after pre-dawn raids in the Sydney area.
The biggest murder hunt in Australia's history got underway after the  bodies of the backpackers, three Germans, two Britons and two Australians,  were found in a remote forest south of here between September 1992 and  November 1993.
Police from Task Force Air -- set up to probe the killings -- searched  nine homes in the Sydney area before dawn including a house in the  southwestern suburb of Eagle Vale, said Superintendent Clive Small, commander  of the force.
Neighbours said that one man was taken away after being held face down on  his front lawn with a gun at his head. A red four-wheel drive vehicle was  carefully searched.
Small said detectives had arrested and charged a 49-year-old man with  armed hold-up and using a firearm on January 25 1990 and that the man -- who  was not identified -- was refused bail and would appear in court Monday.
About 50 onlookers, including families with children, joined scores of  journalists outside the police station where the 49-year-old was held before  Small emerged to make his short statement, which did not refer to the  backpacker slayings.
Unmarked police cars entering Campbelltown police station in southwest  Sydney were seen unloading packages through the day.
Small said police at Bowral, 120 kilometres (75 miles) south of here, had  charged a 42-year-old man with firearm and drug-related offences and a  38-year-old man with firearm and drug offences and deception following the  raids. These two were bailed to appear in court on June 26.
The seven bodies were found buried in the dense Belanglo state forest near  Bowral at four separate sites between September 1992 and November 1993.
There were unconfirmed reports that police had Sunday found backpacks near  the forest.
The bodies of two 22-year-old British women Caroline Clark and Joanne  Walters, were found in September 1992. In October 1993, the remains of  Australian backpackers James Gibson and Deborah Everist were found nearby.
The remains of 20-year-old German girl Simone Schmidl were found on  November 1, 1993, and the bodies of Gabor Neugebauer and his German  girlfriend, Anja Habschied, were found on November 4.
Authories had offered a reward of 500,000 Australian dollars (350,000  U.S.) for information leading to the arrest of the killer.
Sunday's breakthrough in the investigation was helped by information from  a 24-year-old Englishwoman about an incident which occurred in January 1990  when she was visiting Australia, police said.
Police said a four-wheel drive vehicle was probably used to reach isolated  spots where the bodies were found, which had macabre-sounding names such as  Executioner's Gap, Sick Man and Kelly's Drop.
