Hutu militiamen abandoned several positions in the  Rwandan capital in heavy fighting overnight and Friday between government  forces and the mainly Tutsi rebels, a UN representative in Rwanda said.
Abdul Kabia, the spokesman for the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda  (UNAMIR) who was contacted by telehpone, said Rwandan police now occupied  several checkpoints left unmanned by Hutu militiamen who had fled advancing  Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) rebels.
UN military sources said the rebels appeared to be gaining ground in their  assault on the capital, after six weeks of fighting and ethnic massacres in  this tiny central African country plagued by centuries of tribal rivalry.
Kabia said UNAMIR could not immediately confirm reports over the rebels'  Radio Muhabura that the RPF had taken the key market town of Ruhango, about 55  kilometers (34 miles) southwest of Kigali.
Ruhango is not far from Gitarama, the town where the interim Hutu  government fled after fighting broke out in the capital, and its capture would  tighten the rebels' vise around the government camp.
The Hutu militias have been blamed for much of the killing that has left  200,000 to 500,000 people dead in Rwanda since its Hutu president, Juvenal  Habyarimana, was killed on April 6 in an apparent rocket attack on his plane.
His death sent the country back into civil war despite a peace agreement  last August that was to bring the Tutsi minority into the government.
Tens of thousands of Hutus have been fleeing the capital in panic, fearing  Tutsi revenge, taking roads to the south and center of the country, often  without knowing where they are headed.
Kabia said violent shelling hit the capital overnight, followed by  artillery and mortar fire Friday morning that was of slightly lesser intensity.
He also said there were reports of fighting in Ruhengeri and Rulindo in  northern Rwanda.
On Thursday, the Rwandan Patriotic Front agreed, at the request of special  UN envoy Iqbal Riza, to undertake talks in Kigali on Monday with the Rwandan  military command to try to reach a ceasefire.
The Tutsi rebels have refused all contact with the interim government,  which they denounced as a "band of killers."
