A man, believed to be a right-wing political  activist, shot at former Japanese prime minister Morihiro Hosokawa here  Monday, but he escaped unhurt, police said.
The 52-year-old attacker, who called himself Masakatsu Nozoe and a member  of rightist group Shokonjuku, was immediately overpowered, police said, adding  that they were questioning the gunman.
Hosokawa was attacked when he was standing at the entrance of Keio Plaza  Hotel after attending an inaugural meeting held by the Tokyo chapter of his  Japan New Party (JNP).
Further details of the attack were not immediately available.
Hosokawa was forced to resign as prime minister last month after being  grilled in parliament over a suspected shady loan he got from the  scandal-tainted Sagawa Kyubin trucking group.
Opposition parties have demanded that Hosokawa testify in parliament about  the scandal, while some members of the JNP, one of the major groups in the  ruling colition, said he should resign as party leader.
Hosokawa, 56, came to power last August in general elections which ended  the Liberal Democratic Party's (LDP) 38-year grip on Japanese politics.
He has repeatedly denied opposition party allegations that his loan of 100  million yen (960,000 dollars) from Sagawa in 1982 was a bribe.
Hosokawa has said that he had repaid the loan, but he failed to show  convincing evidence to the LDP and other opposition parties, which suspected  it was a bribe.
Opposition forces are demanding that Hosokawa also testify about alleged  dubious trading of Nippon Telegraph and Telepone Corp. (NTT) stocks in 1986.
They maintain that Hosokawa netted a profit of 50 million yen illegally,  using his father-in-law's name when trading the shares.
The former prime minister said that he had only helped his father-in-law  to trade NTT shares and that it was not his deal.
But suspicion about the trade deepened earlier this month as investment  consultant Shuzo Fujiki, who acted as an intermediary in the transaction, told  parliament that he believed the trading was done by Hosokawa.
As Hosokawa's difficulties increased this month, four legislators left the  JNP to form a political group of their own. More are expected to bolt from the  party, political sources said.
An analyst has said that the JNP might suffer a serious setback in the  next general elections to be held in July or August.
