The new Moslem-Croat federation took its first  concrete steps towards becoming a political reality Tuesday by electing a  president and asking Bosnian premier Haris Silajdzic to form a cabinet.
The decisive moves came on the second day of a meeting here of the  federation's constituent parliament, set up to oversee the establishment of a  joint government for a six-month period, after which elections will be called.
Under the federal constitution Silajdzic, who will be accompanied by a  Croat deputy premier, has two weeks to form his cabinet, which will function  as the government of both Bosnia-Hercegovina and the federation.
The constitution of the federation was negotiated in March and April in  Bonn, Vienna and Washington under the guidance of special US envoy for  ex-Yugoslavia Charles Redman.
Silajdzic is bound by the constitution to give Croats five of the 11  ministerial posts in his new cabinet -- defence, finance, justice, trade and  health -- as well as one of four ministerial posts without portfolio.
Meanwhile the delegates elected Croat Kresimir Zubak for a six-month term  as the first president of the new Croat-Moslem federation, whose outline was  first agreed in Washington in March.
The man chosen as his vice president is a Moslem and Bosnia's current vice  president, Ejup Ganic. Both men were nominated by their respective communities  and elected unanimously.
Zubak, a 46-year-old lawyer, is a native of Doboj, northern Bosnia, and  until war broke out two years ago was the town's chief judge. A statement said  he has worked since for the "joint defense" of Moslems and Croats against Serb  forces controlling Doboj.
A moderate, like many of the Croats from northern Bosnia, he replaced the  extremist nationalist Mate Boban last January as head of the Bosnian Croat  community. He took part in all the talks on setting up the new federation.
At Monday's opening session of the constituent parliament, Zubak and other  key figures reaffirmed the federation's claim for a 58 percent share of the  republic's territory.
Zubak told the assembly that "possible compromises in the name of peace  must not in any way modify the basic principles and the strategic framework of  the federation," particularly with regard to resources and communications.
Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic meanwhile said Monday he was not sure  he would travel to Geneva for talks Thursday with international negotiators  who are attempting to impose a settlement that would give the federation 51  percent of the territory, with 49 percent going to the republic's separatist  Serbs.
