Faced with opposition charges of fraud, the  Dominican Republic's national electoral board announced Saturday a  vote-by-vote recount of ballots cast in Monday's presidential election.
The board's president, Manuel Garcia Lizardo, said the recount due to  begin Wednesday should get to the bottom of charges by the top opposition  candidate, Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, that thousands of registered voters were  taken off voting lists.
Pena Gomez, a 57-year-old politician who hopes to become the country's  first black president this century, said nearly 200,000 people -- mostly his  backers -- could not vote when they showed up at polling stations with  documentation in order because their names were stricken from government lists.
President Joaquin Balaguer, the blind, 87-year-old incumbent, was ahead by  1.01 percent when the tally was stopped with 97.6 percent of the ballots  counted.
The Civility Pact Commission, named for a pre-election agreement signed by  the major political parties, had called for a recount.
Pena Gomez and Juan Bosch, another presidential candidate, alleged fraud  as early as Tuesday, and international monitors did cite irregularities in the  polling.
Balaguer, who said he believed the vote was free and fair, has said he  would support any decision the electoral board makes on a recount or holding a  new election.
Despite the tension here, no serious incidents have been reported since  the vote in this country of seven million on the island of Hispaniola, which  it shares with Haiti. Some 30 people were killed in political violence during  the campaign period.
The daily Hoy has reported that data given to the public give Balaguer  1,236,107 votes, while computer diskettes also from the electoral board only  give him 899,860.
In the town of Comendador near the Haitian border, the names of up to 50  percent of prospective voters at one table did not appear on final voter lists  though they had voter cards, said observer Maureen Taft-Morales with the  National Democratic Institute.
All of those turned away said they had planned to vote for Pena Gomez, she  said in a telephone interview in Washington Friday.
"There is a possibility that this is human error or a computer problem but  the fact that virtually everyone turned away was for the opposition makes that  unlikely," she said.
