Eleven French aid workers detained for over a  month by Bosnian Serbs for alleged arms trafficking were freed and flown out  of Sarajevo on Wednesday after payment of 44,000 dollars.
In Paris, a spokeswoman for the charity group Premiere Urgence (Emergency  Aid), which sent them into Bosnia-Hercegovina, denied that the 4,000 dollars a  head paid by the organisation for their release was a ransom.
The sum was "too small to be considered as a ransom," said spokeswoman  Pascale de Lomas (Eds: correct).
She said rather that the money was "bail" which allowed the Bosnian Serbs  to "save face."
The Serbs' demand for payment, which "resembles a racket," had caused much  heart-searching at the charity, she added.
The 11 -- 10 men and one woman -- were driven from Serb-controlled  Lukavica where they had been held to Sarajevo airport and were due in Paris  later Wednesday, military sources here said.
The group had been held since April 8 and had denied the accusations of  gun-running to the mainly Moslem Bosnian army.
A spokesman for the UN Protection Force said they were "unconditionally"  handed over to the French ambassador in Bosnia-Hercegovina, Henri Jacolin, in  Lukavica.
A communique issued by the French foreign ministry said the release came  after "direct pressure from Paris and (Bosnia) on the main parties concerned."
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe had several contacts with the  authorities of rump Yugoslavia and sent the foreign ministry's general  secretary, Bertrand Dufourq, to Belgrade to negotiate a release.
Ambassador Jacolin had daily contacts with the group, the statement added.
The foreign ministry said contacts had also been made with France's main  western partners as well as Russia, European Union president Greece, and the  co-chairman of the peace conference on the former Yugoslavia, Lord Owen, and  UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to help end the aid workers' 40-day  ordeal.
France "thanks those who helped," the statement added.
The group who were travelling in a humanitarian convoy was stopped by  Bosnian Serbs near Sarajevo.
Serb militiamen said they uncovered five crates of ammunition and a pistol  from Islamic countries after searching the convoy.
Serbs who detained the 11 workers in a building a few hundred meters  (yards) from Sarajevo airport later reportedly asked for the group to be  exchanged for Serb prisoners.
On May 7 Serbs said that a trial of the aid workers had been put off until  early June. A day later they extended their month-long detention for another  month.
On Tuesday, a day before the release, Patricia Ettouati, the only woman in  the group, wrote to the bishop of the Normandy town of Evreux, Jacques  Gaillot, that the Serbs were "champions in psychological destruction."
