The United States called here Tuesday for a rapid  deepening of NATO's partnership for peace programme of military cooperation  with the countries of the former Soviet bloc.
US Defense Secretary William Perry said countries of the North Atlantic  Treaty Organisation should boost defence planning, including a programme of  joint military exercises with eastern European countries.
Speaking at a meeting of NATO defence ministers, Perry said the  partnership-for-peace programme would "lay the foundation for a new European  security system with NATO at the centre."
But, speaking earlier before the start of the meeting, he warned that NATO  was not prepared to give Russia any special status or veto rights in order to  tempt Moscow to join the programme.
Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev was due to join the meeting at 1600  GMT to outline Moscow's conditions for signing the partnership, which has  already been joined by 16 countries of the former Warsaw Pact.
Perry said Poland had offered to host military exercises under the  partnership later this year, following an earlier manoeuvre scheduled in the  Netherlands in October. He urged NATO to accept the Polish offer.
The US defense secretary also called on NATO countries to help partnership  members from the former Soviet bloc pay for their participation in the  programme.
"It would be a tragedy if the partnership could not realise its full  potential for lack of adequate support," he said.
Until now, it has been NATO policy that countries could participate in the  programme only to the extent that they could afford to do so.
Perry called on European members of NATO to accelerate the development of  combined joint task forces (CJTF) which would respond to military crises in  Europe, in concert with their partnership partners.
"The pace of progress on the CJTF rests more on European than American  shoulders. Europeans have much more to gain from developing a mechanism that  will allow the use of NATO assets for European-only contingencies," he said.
Perry added: "We have before us a historic opportunity to build a new  trans-Atlantic security system that will ensure peace and stability in all of  Europe well into the next century."
