World number one batsman Brian Lara earned  consolation for failing to equal the world record of six consecutive centuries  by making it six out of seven at Lord's on Monday.
The West Indian left-hander hit 22 fours and a huge six on to the roof of  the pavilion on the way to 140, his second highest score in his first  championship season.
Lara's county, Warwickshire, set Middlesex a victory target of 269 runs  off 50 overs.
Mike Roseberry responded with a battling 73 but once he was gone, the home  team lost their momentum and hung on for a draw on 245 for nine.
Wasim Akram demolished Somerset with a sensational bowling burst as  Lancashire sealed their first championship win of the season by an innings and  88 runs.
The Pakistani star took five for nine in 28 balls as Somerset crashed from  136 for six to 160 all out in just 29 minutes.
Wasim's eight for 30 second-innings return was his best-ever for  Lancashire and he said: "I could have got a wicket with my first ball, got one  with the second and from then on everything went right."
Darren Bicknell scored a century as Surrey stayed top of the table with a  dramatic last-ball victory over Gloucestershire.
Surrey reached their victory target of 354 in 90 overs with a scampered  bye as wicket-keeper Jack Russell missed with a desperate throw at the stumps.
Paul Johnson hit a 46-ball half-century before Nottinghamshire's  tail-enders dug in to deny Derbyshire their first championship win.
Notts began the day needing 209 more runs with all their wickets intact  but were left reeling when Phil DeFreitas claimed three victims in an  impressive 10-over spell.
Part-time off-spinner Peter Hepworth produced career-best figures of three  for 30 and Gordon Parsons took four for 34 as Leicestershire cruised to a  140-run victory over Kent.
Earlier Phil Robinson hit 78 and Ben Smith 37 not out as the home side  declared on 281 for five to leave Kent needing 329 in 80 overs.
Mal Loye made an unbeaten 107 and Curtly Ambrose took two wickets in four  balls as Northamptonshire forced a draw with Worcestershire.
