South Korea on Saturday reacted cautiously to North  Korea's renewed brinkmanship in the nuclear standoff, withholding official  comment pending further word from an international watchdog on the dispute.
"Until the IAEA makes an official report, the government is not in a  position to make any comment," Ambassador Kim Sam-Hoon, in charge of nuclear  issues, said in a press statement.
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said earlier that North  Korea had resumed refuelling at a five-megawatt nuclear reactor, threatening  to make a full accounting of weapons-grade fuel impossible.
IAEA director-general Hans Blix said the accelerated pace of fuel rod  removal could -- "within days " -- make it impossible for inspectors to  determine whether weapons-grade plutonium had been diverted for military use.
In a letter to United Nations Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali,  Blix said: "Should this be the case ... the agency will not be in a position  to verify the amount of plutonium produced" in North Korea.
He said almost half the fuel in the reactor core had been discharged and  in a pattern that has "precluded the agency's ability to implement the full  range of safeguard measures required."
Hours after the Blix letter was made public, South Korean Foreign Minister  Han Sung-Joo summoned an emergency meeting of senior officials here Saturday,  a spokesman said.
At the meeting, the officials discussed the North's moves and possible  motives but decided to withhold formal comment pending the full IAEA report,  the foreign ministry spokesman said.
The ministry officials discussed the North's possible intentions in  refusing to allow the IAEA an opportunity to test the used fuel rods from the  reactor in Yongbyon, South Korea's Yonhap news agency said.
The officials suspected the North might be using its usual brinkmanship to  the hilt to draw maximum concessions from the United States when the US-North  Korea high-level talks resume, Yonhap said.
But they also raised the possibility that the North was attempting to cover  up a nuclear-weapons development program by pushing ahead with the removal of  fuel rods despite repeated warnings of UN sanctions, Yonhap said.
Ibrahim Gambari, the Nigerian ambassador who chairs the UN Security  Council this month, described the matter as "very serious and delicate" and  said council members would be holding consulations over the weekend.
A government source here said an informal Security Council meeting would  take place on Saturday to discuss the possibility of a statement or resolution  urging North Korea to stop the refuelling or risk possible sanctions.
A US official said Washington was prepared to hold a third round of  high-level talks with North Korea as long as it was still possible for the  IAEA to confirm that no plutonium had been diverted for weapons.
The high-level talks would discuss ways to put an end to North Korea's  nuclear standoff, the improvement of US-North Korea ties and the halt to  US-South Korea Team Spirit military exercises in November.
US Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Friday that America was not  seeking confrontation with North Korea.
"Confrontation is emphatically not our preferred path," Christopher said  in a speech to the Asia Society in New York.
