Islamic fundamentalists gunned down two Israeli  sergeants on the Gaza Strip on Friday, provoking warnings that autonomy would  not survive unless the PLO halted attacks.
They were the first Jewish soldiers killed since Israel and the PLO signed  an accord on May 4 to launch self-rule in Gaza and Jericho.
Three men in a car raked a roadblock with automatic weapons fire near the  northern edge of Gaza. They fled into the autonomous Palestinian zone.
A third soldier shot back at the car, but the army did not give hot  pursuit, the officials said.
And two Israelis driving a garbage truck were lightly wounded when  Palestinians fired from a passing car near Morag settlement, in southern Gaza.
They also fled into the self-rule area, military officials said.
Islamic Jihad said it carried out the "heroic" operation which left the  two soldiers dead near the Erez border crossing, controlled by Israel.
The Islamic Resistance Movement HAMAS claimed responsibility for the  second shooting.
As a result, Israeli Chief of Staff Ehud Barak sealed off the Strip until  May 29, preventing Palestinians from leaving the area.
"The army considers that it is the role of the Palestinian police to  prevent armed men from reaching Israeli checkpoints," an army spokesman said.  "The closure is intended to allow the Palestinian police to organize  themselves to halt further attacks."
Under autonomy, Israel protects the 4,000 settlers in Gaza while the new  police maintains order in the self-rule areas.
An officer, identified only as Colonel Shaul, said contacts had been made  with the police to try "to prevent a repetition of such attacks."
"The Palestinian police has only been deployed for a few days and is  having difficulties getting organized to stop terrorist infiltrations in areas  of the Gaza Strip which are under our control," he said.
Israeli leaders issued a severe warning that self-rule would be over  unless the PLO prevented murderous attacks.
"If the PLO does not bring the situation under control ... it will itself  have put an end to the agreement," said Education Minister Amnon Rubinstein.
"It has to be clear that the Gaza Strip and Jericho will not serve as safe  havens for assassins," he said.
Eli Dayan, the parliamentary Labour Party leader, said: "If the  Palestinians do not take real measures, the autonomy agreement has no future."
State radio quoted military sources as saying that so far the Palestinians  were "incapable of controlling the situation".
"Armed activists from HAMAS move around freely on the Gaza Strip without  police intervening," the radio said.
PLO chief negotiator Nabil Shaath, on a 24-hour Gaza visit, led strong  denials from the Palestinians.
"We are not losing control. Just wait for us and give us a chance,"he said.
"I regret every drop of blood which is spilled and I condemn this."
Some 3,000 policeman have entered the Strip and another 670 Jericho in the  last two weeks out a force which is due to swell to 9,000.
Freih Abu Middein, a member of the new Palestinian authority, admitted  problems.
"The donor countries have not given us anything," he complained. "We are  still waiting for 120 jeeps to arrive, we are waiting for communications  equipment. How can we send out patrols without communications."
Abu Middein also said money was short."This is why Nabil Shaath is here,  but the money (he brought) is not enough to cover everything for the police."
The amount Shaath brought in was not revealed.
Israeli troops protect three main settlement areas, including the Erez  industrial and settlement zone in the north of the strip.
HAMAS shot dead two settlers and seriously wounded a third near the West  Bank town of Hebron on Tuesday.
The last soldier killed by Palestinians was found dead in East Jerusalem  on April 21.
Friday's deaths pushed to 226 the number of Israelis killed by  Palestinians since the uprising or intifada began in December 1987.
