Baron Marcel Bich, the founder of the Bic empire of  pens and disposable razors, has died, his family said on Tuesday. He was 79.
They said the industrialist died Monday but did not immediately state the  cause of death.
The Bic company he founded in 1950 made him one of France's and the  world's legendary industrialists after his cheap ballpoint pens and later  razors, cigarette lighters and other disposable objects won a world-wide  market.
The baron headed his firm until 1993 when he turned over the chairmanship  to his son Bruno. In 1973, the Bic company also took over DIM, a well-known  French hosiery firm, and the Rosy women's lingerie company, making his group  the number one in lingerie in France and Italy.
He was also a yachting enthusiast, his boat Le Francea taking part in the  Americas cup in 1970, 1974, 1977 and 1980.
Born on July 29, 1914 in Turin, northern Italy, he was the son of a French  mother and an Italian father, the engineer Baron Aime Mario Bich who was from  an old aristocratic family from the Savoie region.
He enjoyed an international education following the numerous moves of his  father, studying in Madrid and later in Paris where he took a law degree.
From the age of 19, Bich started working as a door-to-door salesman before  joining an office equipment firm where he rose to be director of production in  1939. After World War II, he used all his savings to buy a small pen factory.
His goal was to produce his own cheap, disposable ballpoint pen -- an  unknown product at the time.
The Bic pen was put on the market in November 1953 and caught on in  post-war France with a success even the baron never imagined. He brought his  product to Italy next, then bought out the English firm Biro-Swann in 1957 and  the following year took on the lucrative American market.
His Bic pens quickly became a household word with exports around the  globe, with the baron at the head of a multinational company that in 1992  registered a volume of six billion francs (more than one billion dollars).
In 1971, he branched out further buying part of the French couture house  Guy Laroche, then DIM two years later followed by the Rosy firm.
In 1975, Bic launched its disposable razor line, defying the heavy  competition that already had a firm hold on the market. In 1983, he took  control of the pencil firm Conte.
The industrialist has been awarded the Chevalier of the Legion d'Honneur,  one of France's top award.
He is the father of 11 children from three marriages.
