UN peacekeepers may be powerless to staunch  Rwanda's bloodbath and will risk getting caught in crossfire, as they  discovered to their cost in Somalia, diplomats and UN officials said Wednesday.
The UN Security Council voted Tuesday to increase the number of UN troops  in the central African nation from 400 to 5,500, though no immediate pledges  of men were forthcoming.
Unless the fresh troops deploy speedily with armoured vehicles and  helicopters, they could be overwhelmed by the widespread carnage in which more  than 200,000 Rwandans have been butchered in six weeks, UN spokesman Abdul  Kabia said.
The UN force will not intervene in fighting between the rebel Rwanda  Patriotic Front (RPF) and the army, Kabia said.
But they will be allowed to fire to protect civilians still being  massacred by militias controlled only loosely, if at all, by the government.
The UN Security Council decided to send troops back to Rwanda after the  United Nations came under heavy criticism for withdrawing all but 400 of its  2,500 ceasefire monitors when an ethnic bloodbath engulfed the country  following the April 6 death of president Juvenal Habyarimana in an alleged  rocket attack on his plane.
Cautious after its failure to end factional fighting in Somalia, the  United Nations did not empower the Rwanda force to launch offensive  "peacemaking" operations which characterised its heavily criticised Somalia  operation in which more than 80 foreign soldiers died.
But doubts persist about how effective the new force will be.
"The killings are widespread and they're done by machete, in silence,  often at night, by attackers who raid people's homes," an African diplomat  said. "How do you deploy conventional soldiers to stop that?"
Western diplomats expressed fears that the soldiers would get caught in  crossfire after a convoy carrying former French humanitarian action minister  Bernard Kouchner came under fire from rebels outside Kigali on Sunday.
"They may just get picked off like in Somalia," said a western diplomat,  referring to the killings of five Nepalese peacekeepers and the kidnapping of  another in Mogadishu this week.
The planned new force has won the agreement of the army and the rebels,  though the RPF warned that it must stick to humanitarian missions without  becoming a "military intervention force" and also said 5,500 soldiers were too  many.
"The problem we may have is with the militias but we can handle that  provided we have the right resources," Kabia said. "This is not an  intervention force to stop fighting between the two sides; that will be a  political effort."
The blue helmets will escort convoys of food and medicine to hundreds of  thousands of Rwandans threatened by famine and disease, and will help protect  civilians and more than a million people displaced by fighting, Kabia said.
In the first stage, 150 military observers evacuated last month will  return, and there are plans for a Ghanaian battalion that was partially  withdrawn to be brought back to its full strength of 800.
Nigeria and Australia are also willing to send soldiers, UN sources said.  South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Senegal, Zambia and Zimbabwe are also  possible contributors.
Kabia said that if the new force had been in place, it could have  prevented the slaughter of 10 children and a Rwandan woman working for the UN  children's fund UNICEF, hacked to death in their home Sunday.
Relief officials blame extremist Hutu militias for the killings of many of  the 200,000 to 500,000 Rwandans whom they believe have been slaughtered.
Most victims were from the minority Tutsi tribe that dominates the rebel  movement. Others were Hutu moderates or opposition supporters.
The rebels deny accusations by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees that  they have also slaughtered civilians.
The rebels have turned their attention away from the capital, still rocked  by sporadic mortar fire Wednesday, and are advancing towards the town of  Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25 miles) to the southwest, where the government fled  last month, Kabia said.
The RPF has cut the road between Gitarama and Kigali.
Heavy fighting also raged Wednesday in the northwestern town of Ruhengeri  where the army is holding out against a rebel onslaught, Kabia said.
