New Delhi model Sushmita Sen won the Miss Universe  1994 contest here Saturday, beating 76 other aspirants to the prestigious  title.
The 18-year-old became India's first winner of the contest, unaware that  police were investigating the possibility that a man killed in an explosion  just before may have planned to disrupt the event. Police also held back  feminist demonstrators.
The hazel-eyed brunette, who stands 1.75 meters (5ft9in), was a surprise  winner and will take home over 150,000 dollars in cash and prizes.
She edged out first runner-up Miss Colombia Carolina Gomez Correa, 19, and  Miss Venezuela Minorka Mercado, 22, the overwhelming pre-finals favorite.
Sen succeeded Puerto Rican model Dayanara Torres as Miss Universe, and won  154,000 dollars in prizes, including 67,000 dollars in cash, gold and diamond  jewelry, a Pontiac Firebird convertible, and lots of free shopping privileges.
She wants to someday have a career in the theater, advertising or writing.
"Women in India have now become more aware of their rights as individuals  and are now opting for higher positions at work, at the same time being a  perfect housewife at home," Sen said in an written personal profile.
Sen also said she wanted to meet Mother Teresa, the nun who cares for the  poor in the Indian city of Calcutta, because she is "a perfect example of a  person who is totally selfless, devoted and unconditional".
The three other finalists were Miss USA Frances Louise Parker, Miss  Philippines Charlene Gonzales, and Miss Slovak Republic Silvia Lakatosova.
The contest, broadcast live from the Philippine International Convention  Center to an estimated television audience of 600 million people, ran smoothly  despite two crude bomb explosions around the venue in the past two days.
A man carrying a home made bomb was killed instantly when the explosive  went off less than a kilometer (half a mile) from the convention center four  hours before the pageant finals. Police said they were investigating the  possibility of a terrorist attempt to disrupt the contest.
But they said it was also possible that he was an illegal fisherman who  was using dynamite to fish in Manila Bay, on whose shores the heavily guarded  convention center is located.
On Thursday night a tiny bomb went off in a garbage bin just outside the  convention center, causing minor damage.
Press reports here earlier said communist insurgents had threatened to  disrupt the pageant, which critics denounce as an anomaly in a country where  poverty forces thousands of women into prostitution.
As the Miss Universe Contest got underway, some 100 feminists tried to  march to the convention center but were kept away by police.
A streamer handed out at the protest accused the government of President  Fidel Ramos, who attend the pageant finals, of being a "world class pimp" for  hosting the beauty contest, which has been won by two Filipinas since 1969.
"No to sex tourism," the leaflet said. "Not only is the Miss Universe  contest in the Philippines a spectacle of female flesh. Worse, it is also a  vehicle to sell the Filipina to the world."
