Influential members of President Bill Clinton's  own party are so enraged at his about face on China that they plan to  introduce legislation to impose tough sanctions on Beijing over its human  rights record.
"When the Congress reconvenes after Memorial Day, I will introduce  legislation which will be more likely to encourage the Chinese government to  improve its practices on trade and human rights," Senate majority leader  George Mitchell said immediately after Clinton's decision was announced  Thursday.
Clinton timed his announcement to come after the Senate had broken up for  the Memorial Day long weekend holiday, but the it reconvenes Tuesday and  legislation could be filed any time after that.
The Democratic president who made much during his election campaign of his  Republican predecessor's "coddling" of Beijing's repressive regime now faces  the embarrassing prospect of members of his own party criticising him on  exactly the same grounds.
Clinton acknowledged Thursday that China had failed to meet the human  rights goals he set last year as a condition for renewing Beijing's most  favored nation (MFN) trading status.
But he said revoking MFN and disrupting a 40 billion dollar a year trade  relationship was not in Washington's interest.
Clinton said he would be imposing very limited sanctions -- affecting just  200 million dollars worth of Chinese arms imports a year -- as an expression  of his dissatisfaction over China's human rights conduct.
But it was immediately clear that he had not been able to convince the  pro-human rights lobby within his own party that this was the best road to  follow.
Representative Nancy Pelosi, of California, joined fellow Democrat  Mitchell in threatening immediate legislation to impose far tougher sanctions.
"We believe that sanctions on China trade are in order and we will proceed  with legislation," she said.
The final draft of the legislation has not been completed, but it was  expected to target Chinese state-owned enterprises, particularly those run by  the military, but would spare the private sector.
One criticism of such action is that it would be virtually impossible to  prove what goods had been produced by the state sector, and that it would  invite retaliation from Beijing.
Although Pelosi and Mitchell claim bipartisan support, they are unlikely  to be able to command the two-thirds majority in both the Senate and the House  that would override any possible presidential veto.
Clinton could nonetheless find himself in the highly embarrassing position  of vetoing exactly the kind of legislation he had lambasted Bush for vetoing  during his presidency.
And there are signs that Republicans will also be trying to shame him into  taking further action.
Gerald Solomon, a Republican Congressman from New York, has already  introduced a resolution of disapproval -- action he took every year when Bush  renewed MFN unconditionally.
"We're not going to get by letting China make a fool out of the United  States every year," Solomon said.
If his resolution is passed it would effectively nullify Clinton's  decision to renew MFN.
