Michael Andretti, who endured a  season of frustration last year as a Formula-One rookie, remains convinced he  never had a fair chance to prove himself.
Andretti, a second-row qualifier for the Indianapolis 500, returned to  Indy-car racing this year after jumping to Formula-One for 1993. He won this  year's Indy-car opener in Australia.
Andretti managed only seven points in 13 Formula-One races last year for  Team McLaren -- his best finish coming in Italy when he was third in his final  race.
"I know the team didn't worry about my problems," Andretti said. "The guys  who worked on my car were really good and behind me. But everyone else  expected me to win my first race with a day-and-a-half of testing."
Andretti hoped to follow the legacy of his father Mario, who won the 1978  Formula-One title. But Michael said he felt much less welcome in F1 than F1  champion Nigel Mansell had felt when he turned to Indy car.
"Racing is number-one here but only second or third in line in Europe,"  Andretti said.
"It's more politics than racing. Americans are much different than  Europeans. They are insecure. Americans are not."
Ayrton Senna, killed in a crash last month, was Andretti's F1 teammate and  gave him some support.
"Ayrton told me it was an impossible situation and the car was very  difficult to drive," Andretti said.
"He kept telling me to keep my head above water and that I had done a good  job under the circumstances."
Andretti said he felt McLaren decided to seek a new driver after he bumped  the rear of a car driven by Austria's Karl Wendlinger in a race at   Donnington, England.
"I felt changes within the team after that," he said. "That was my first  big mistake. I guess I wasn't allowed to make a mistake."
The 31-year-old marked his Indy-car return by winning in Australia -- a  victory he hopes proved something to critics.
"It gave me a great feeling and if it shut some people up, fine," he said.  "I can't worry about everybody else because not everybody is an expert."
Andretti will start the May 29 Indy 500 from the middle of the second row,  four places better than his father and two places ahead of Mansell, who drives  the car Michael surrendered to join Formula-One.
That decision cost him the chance to be teamed with his father in the  elder Andretti's final season.
"That's the only thing lacking," he said. "I wish he was my teammate. We  had a great time being together for those four years."
Despite the disappointment of last year, Andretti considers the experience  a benefit.
"I would hate to think it was all for nothing," Andretti said.
"Sometimes your toughest years are your most beneficial. With the  experience I have gained this year, I know the results this year in F1 would  have been 100 percent different."
