US business leaders hailed President Bill  Clinton's decision Thursday to renew China's most favored nation (MFN) trading  status, but human rights activists expressed disappointment.
Senate Majority leader George Mitchell, one of the spearheads of the drive  for a tougher stand against Beijing meanwhile said he disagreed with Clinton's  action and will introduce legislation seeking stiffer measures.
"The experience of recent years has been that each concession to the  Chinese Communist regime encourages its intransigence. I believe this will be  the unfortunate result of this decision," Mitchell said.
"It will confirm for the Chinese Communist regime the success of its  policy of repression on human rights and manipulation on trade," added the top  Democrat in Congress.
US businessmen had lobbied strongly for Clinton to unconditionally renew  China's MFN status for fear of jeopardising a 40 billion dollar-a year trade  relationship.
"We are most pleased that the administration recognizes that trade is but  one of a number of issues the United States and China must resolve together  through cooperation, not confrontation," the US Chamber of Commerce said.
"Tying MFN status to human rights is like using a blunt instrument for  brain surgery," the chamber said in a statement after Clinton announced a  decoupling of the rights issue from the annual review of trade privileges.
M.R. Greenberg, chairman of the 250-member United States-China Business  Council, said Clinton's approach permitted the development of bilateral trade  and investment and a strengthening of overall Sino-US relations.
"While we will surely continue to have differences, the council believes  that the best way to resolve them is through the energetic expansion of our  relations in all important fields," Greenberg said.
"President Clinton's decision moves us toward this goal, and it will have  a strong positive effect on US relationships with other countries in the  Asia-Pacific region," he said.
Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers,  called Clinton's move to delink rights and trade "historic" and said it was  "the best decision for the American economy and jobs."
"American business has been a positive force in improving human rights  conditions in China," he said.
