(Graphic) (Picture)
Japan seeks middle-ground solution to save endangered whales
by Eduardo Garcia Aguilar
PUERTO VALLARTA, Mexico, May 25 (AFP) - Japan is seeking middle ground  between a French proposal to ban whaling below the 40th parallel and its own  plan for a smaller sanctuary and limited hauls of the minke whale.
Kazuo Shima, Japanese representative at a four-day meeting here of the  International Whaling Commission, said Tuesday he was "disappointed" at what  he called a conspiracy of lies by environmentalists against his country.
"It's important to protect dwindling resourses, but with regards to the  minke whale, with an estimated population of 750,000, those resources must be  exploited," Shima said, referring to Japan's proposal.
He said Japan's proposal to hunt up to 2,000 minke whales, whose meat is  considered a delicacy in Japan, in no way threatened the species.
On the contrary, Shima told a press conference, giving whales total  protection with no population control would disrupt global fishing yields,  since the marine mammals consumed five times more fish than humans caught.
He said that while France's proposal to ban whale hunting south of the  40th parallel to save 11 whale species enjoyed widespread support, it needed  closer scientific study before it could be approved.
Chile, which opposes the creation of a sanctuary which would include any  of its territorial waters, has also proposed a smaller whale sanctuary.
The 40th parallel circles the globe south of Buenos Aires, Santiago and  south of Australia and the southern tip of Africa.
Shima said Japan would favor a compromise among all the proposals for  whale sanctuaries put forth at the meeting.
The president of the whaling commission, Luis Fleischer of Mexico, urged  participants when the meeting opened Monday to reach "fair and equitable"  agreements to regulate whaling.
But he acknowledged that hunting "continues to be relevant to some  indigenous communities and to the culture of some countries."
Seventy-five percent of the votes of the 31 countries represented at the  meeting must approve a proposal for it to pass.
Ten countries are expected to back the French proposal: Argentina,  Australia, Britain, Denmark, France, Ireland, Mexico, Monaco, the United  States and New Zealand. Dominica may also back the plan.
Japan's initiative counts on support from Grenada, St. Vincent and St.  Lucia.
Norway and South Korea are expected to abstain.
The rich southern waters have yielded 1.5 million of the huge mammals in  the past century, hunted for their meat, blubber and whalebone.
The French-proposed sanctuary is designed to protect the 1,000 remaining  blue whales, which grow to 30 meters (100 feet) and can weigh 150 tonnes, and  some 12,000 humpbacked whales.
The no-hunting zone would also benefit the minke whale, which has replaced  the blue and humpbacked as a target of Japanese and Norwegian whalers.
In addition to commercial hunting, the whale is threatened by climactic  changes such as the destruction of the ozone layer protecting Earth from the  sun's ultraviolet rays.
