President Bill Clinton announced Thursday he  was renewing China's most favored nation trading status for another year and  ending the policy of linking trade issues and human rights.
But he said he would impose limited sanctions on Beijing to pressure it to  continue to improve its human rights record.
"I have decided that the United States should renew most favored nation  trading status for China," Clinton said.
"I am moving to delink human rights from most favored nation status. I  believe ... that we have reached the end of the usefulness of that policy."
But Clinton said that while China had made progress in some areas laid  down in his executive order last year conditioning future MFN on its human  rights record, there had not been sufficient progress in others.
In view of the continued abuses, Clinton said he was extending sanctions  imposed as a result of the Tiananmen massacre in June 1989, "in particular the  import of ammunitions and guns," worth an estimated 200 million dollars this  year.
Clinton had said a year ago that he would not renew China's MFN, which  allows it to import goods into the United States at the lowest possible  tariffs, beyond June unless it showed significant progress on human rights.
Thursday's decision marked a distinct stepping down from Clinton's  position during the election campaign when he accused incumbent George Bush of  "coddling" a repressive regime in Beijing guilty of human rights abuses.
Clinton said Thursday that "the Chinese did not achieve overall  significant progress in all the areas" he laid down last year, "although there  clearly was progress made in important areas."
"Serious human rights abuses continue in China," the president told a  press conference, but "we are far more likely to have human rights advances  when it is not under the cloud of the question of the annual review of MFN."
"I believe we can do it by engaging the Chinese. We will have more  contacts, we will have more trade."
China warned ahead of Thursday's announcement that sanctions would be  unwise but refused to comment on what retaliatory measures, if any, it might  take.
