President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe said on Friday  the future of international peace lay in the hands of individual regions which  should be prepared to deal with conflicts that threaten regional stability.
Addressing an audience at the Royal Institute of International Affairs  here, Mugabe said Africa "can settle the problems of Liberia, Somalia and  Rwanda" with help from the international community, but proposed no direct  initiatives.
"The future of international peace lies in our ability as regions to  develop our own capacities and mobilise first our own resources to prevent,  manage and resolve regional conflicts, albeit with the necessary support and  cooperation of the international community and the United Nations," he said.
Mugabe cited the success of a regional intiative in Mozambique which led  to indirect and then direct contacts between the government and the Mozambique  National Resistance (RENAMO).
The meetings ended in the Rome Accords of October 1992, Mugabe said,  adding he was "happy" that "the peace process is moving ahead.
"Africa believes that regional actors, with a better understanding of  regional and local issues, are better placed to handle local conflicts than  more distant participation," he said, citing several examples.
A meeting of African leaders in Gbadolite in 1990 paved the way for the  first face-to-face meeting between Angolan President Eduardo dos Santos and  the leader of the UNITA rebels Jonas Savimbi.
This lead to the Bicesse Peace Accords of 1991, which should have ended 16  years of fighting after independence from Portugal, Mugabe said.
"Unfortunately, our efforts crumbled when UNITA rejected the electoral  results of September 1992."
But he added that the OAU Heads of State and the OAU committees together  with frontline states and the UN had held peace talks for six months in the  Zambian capital Lusaka, where agreement was "now imminent".
Elsewhere, Mugabe said a lasting to the solution of the problems in Rwanda  and Burundi lay "in the acceptance of national reconciliation by all ethnic  groups and the adoption of a national, social, political and economic platform  that emphasizes common interest and goals rather than differences."
Zimbabwe was ready to send a battalion of troops to Rwanda if required, he  said.
In Liberia, Mugabe said the regional economic group the Economic Community  of West African States (ECOWAS) had created a monitoring group ECOMOG which  then became a peace enforcement unit under the UN, successfully created the    Cotonou Peace Accord last year, which he hopes will create "lasting democracy."
But he said a sub-regional initiative had tackled -- unsuccessfully so far  -- conflicts in Lesotho.
Mugabe said Africa's "burdensome economic and debt problems" had prevented  it tackling Somalia, but since the UN had turned its attention elsewhere, the   problem was now back with the OAU.
Africa has experienced over 25 civil wars or ethnic conflicts since 1960.
