After 20 months of uninterupted cuts in British  interest rates, financial analysts now believe they could rise before the end  of the year to combat inflationary pressures.
A report from National Westminster Bank warned that interest rates will  rise 1.5 percent over the next year, touching 6.75 percent by next summer.
It said the rise would begin this autumn with rates going from 5.25  percent to 5.75 percent by the end of the year.
This was backed up by forecasts from other economists who predicted that  once the government had judged the underlying growth of the economy and the  Conservative party conference in October was out the way, rates could rise.
"Unless there is a currency crisis, they are unlikely to rise before the  turn of the year, when they will lift around one percent," said economist  Nigel Richardson at the bank Yamaichi.
Since sterling was brutally ejected from the European Exchange Rate  Mechanism (ERM) in September 1992, British interest rates have consistently  dropped, falling from 12 percent to 5.25 percent on February 8.
But statistical evidence that the economy is growing strongly, combined  with figures showing that large tax rises in April have not stunted economic  growth, indicates that the government may have to trim the economy at some  point.
Statistics on Tuesday showed that Britain's narrowly-defined M0 money  supply rose by 0.2 percent in May from April and by 7.1 percent year on year  -- far above the government's annual growth target of between zero and four  percent.
Earlier in May, statistics showed that in April, retail sales rose 0.4  percent and unemployment fell a further 36,800 to 9.5 percent of the working  population.
While not warning of inflationary pressures, analysts have taken note that  inflation rose to 2.6 percent in April and that average earnings continue to  rise.
Last week, the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) revised upwards its  growth projections for Britain, predicting 2.4 percent growth in 1994 and 2.5  percent in 1995 -- one tenth of a percentage point up on forecasts in February.
Improved consumer demand and domestic investment lay behind the sunnier  outlook, despite tax increases in April, the CBI said.
Weekend press reports also indicated that the government was ready to raise  its growth estimates, currently at 2.5 percent for 1994, to around three  percent.
Share prices have tumbled lower recently following sharp falls in futures  and gilts markets as they believe interest rates will not go any lower, and  may rise.
On Friday, the FT-SE 100 index of leading shares fell through the key  3,000 barrier to its lowest rate since August.
"I wouldn't like to say 'Boom Boom Britain', but I think we will be seeing  headlines like that soon," said Richardson.
