Hundreds of Somali refugees besieged a UN food  depot here for the first handouts in two months, but 6,000 others remained  trapped in crossfire Saturday in a camp to the east of Aden.
Two months' rations of basic foodstuffs were handed out to every Somali  man, woman and child who turned up for Friday's distribution in Aden, said  UNHCR officials.
But Carlos Zaccagnini, head of the Aden bureau of the UN High Commissioner  for Refugees (UNHCR), said a food convoy which had been due to leave Sanaa on  Thursday was still stuck in the northern capital because of the intense  fighting around Al-Kud camp, 45 kilometers (28 miles) outside Aden.
He said there would have to be a "real end to hostilities" before they  would be able to help the 6,000 still in Al-Kud and assess the situation which  is feared to be "catastrophic."
The UNHCR has said at least 175 Somalis were killed in fighting between  rival northern and southern troops in the very first days of Yemen's civil war  which broke out on May 5.
The camp, nicknamed "Little Mogadishu," has been the target of artillery  duels.
About 200 families comprising up to 1,500 people were given rations in the  Aden operation "which took time to organise," Zaccagnini said.
Each person received half a sack of flour, a kilogram (one pound) of sugar  and a carton of Danish cheese to last two months.
Some 11,800 Somali refugees are registered with the UNHCR in Yemen after  fleeing their country's civil war in 1992, only to find themselves caught in  more fighting. Some 2,000 live in Aden.
President Ali Abdallah Saleh cancelled a ceasefire Saturday and vowed that  his northern forces would capture Aden after his southern rivals declared an  independent state.
Tim Kennedy of the non-governmental organization Care Australia which  works with the UNHCR in Yemen said: "In total, 22 tonnes of corn, two tonnes  of sugar and 1.5 tonnes of cheese have been distributed today."
He said the operation would continue on Wednesday for other Somali  refugees, who would also have to produce UNHCR rations cards to qualify for  the handouts.
Zaccagnini said the refugees in Aden showed no signs of malnutrition, and  conceded that despite efforts to maintain strict control over the aid  distribution effort there were "big problems."
Many of the Somalis had two ration cards which had led to a number of  problems.
He accused numerous Somalis of trafficking drugs and alcohol and said many  of them had brought with them to Yemen their "tribal system, which has been a  source of conflict and brawls."
