A few German prisoners-of-war have  stayed on in Normandy where hotels, cafes and even butchers' shops are  displaying "Welcome to our Liberators" signs as the 50th anniversary of the  D-Day landings approaches.
Leipzig-born Johannes Borner, a paratrooper who survived the carnage of  the Falaise gap battle, runs a restaurant and hotel in this port at the mouth  of the river Orne.
From the outside, it has little to distinguish it from a French  establishment and the fish cuisine is Norman, but a sign outside says  "Gasthaus" and inside, there are cuckoo clocks, German engravings on the  walls, and typical Bavarian tablecloths.
On D-Day on June 6, Borner was green and aged 18. He and his unit, the  third paratroop division, was moved from Britanny during five nights of forced  marches to Saint-Lo, to try to stop the allied invasion.
"When we arrived we were completely exhausted. We had to march at night to  avoid air attacks. We held out for a month until July 18. There were 120 men  in my company on June 5. There were only nine of us left after three weeks of  fighting."
Borner was later caught in the Falaise gap rout when thousands of German  tanks, trucks, guns and horse-drawn transports were backed up in the narrow  lanes of Normandy, a sitting target for allied warplanes and shelling. Ten  thousand Germans died in the battle, which ended in the last week of August,  and 50,000 were taken prisoner.
Allied commander-in-chief Dwight Eisenhower described the scene as  something out of Dante's inferno, saying it was "possible to walk for hundreds  of yards on nothing but dead and decaying flesh."
Borner said "I still dream about it." He was taken prisoner by the  Canadians to begin four years of captivity, starting with a year of demining.
After that he worked on a Normandy farm, and decided not to return home  when he was freed. "My mother died in the Lepizig bombings and my father wrote  to me saying 'You'll be better off in France than here with the Russians'."
Borner worked as a waiter in Lion-sur-mer and in Caen before meeting and  marrying a Normandy girl, taking out French nationality and opening his first  hotel at Luc-sur-mer in 1955.
"At first people mistrusted me, but I could not blame them after all they  went through during the war. They could not welcome me with open arms."
Borner has been running his hotel-restaurant at Ouistreham, the  Chateaubriand, since 1969, and welcomes veterans from both sides. On the 40th  anniversary in 1984, he met the man who took him prisoner, Canadian major Jim  Curry.
"We hugged each other and we wept and then we spent the evening telling  war stories."
Another ex-prisoner, Gerhard Busch, a 70-year-old from Bremen, northern  Germany, was taken to Saint-Lo as a paramedic to look after German POWs.
He married a French nurse and until his retirement, worked as an assistant  radiologist in Saint-Lo. Times were hard at first. "They called my wife 'Hun  whore'," he said.
He said his daughter, now aged 42, was the victim of anti-German feeling  at her high school, but later the school became one of the first in the region  to be twinned with a German school.
