A US envoy met Cambodian Defence Minister Tea  Banh here Wednesday to discuss the government's battle with the Khmer Rouge.
The Cambodian minister told AFP that deputy assistant secretary of defence  Kent Weidemann was "to study the potential and effectiveness of Royal  Government troops in fighting Khmer Rouge guerrillas."
Tea said he told the envoy the military situation in Cambodia was serious.  But he would not say if Cambodian appeals for military aid and training from  the United States had been raised or approved.
A US embassy official said Cambodia had "made their wants and needs known  and we're considering them, but any decisions will be taken in Washington."
In Bangkok, Thomas Hubbard, a State Department deputy assistant secretary,  said Wiedemann would discuss the Cambodian appeal for arms.
Hubbard added that the official would report back to Secretary of Defence  Warren Christopher on returning to Washington this week.
King Norodom Sihanouk requested military aid and training from the United  States, Australia and France "to save Cambodia from the yoke of the Khmer  Rouge."
Thailand has opposed the move and Hubbard had talks with Thai officials on  the issue while at an Association of Southeast Asian Nations security  conference in Bangkok.
He said "there were no decisions, no final agreements." The Thais  indicated they had an open mind on what kind of assistance would be  "acceptable," he added.
Hubbard said the United States had not yet decided that lethal aid would  solve Cambodia's problems, but "we think (the King's) appeal should be taken  seriously."
A final decision would depend on reports and further consultations, he  said. "Certainly it seems the Cambodian military could use some help," he  said, adding that Washington had "not decided how we might help."
Other potential avenues for aid included training for government troops or  military leaders, he explained.
On Tuesday, Wiedemann toured the Thai-Cambodian border see the effects of  recent fighting in Cambodia on Thai side.
US Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Winston  Lord said last week the United States was holding talks with Australia and  ASEAN countries -- Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and  Thailand -- on how to help the Cambodian government.
Government forces are slowly pushing the Khmer Rouge back to their base at  northwest Pailin after the rebels launched an offensive that brought them  within striking distance of Cambodia's second city, Battambang.
