"Take away the Taj, save industry" -- reads  freshly-painted graffiti in the Taj Mahal town of Agra, site of the world's  greatest monument to love.
The slogan sums up a campaign by factory owners and workers fearful about  their own survival amid a crusade to protect the 17th century white-marble  mausoleum from a slow cancer caused by pollution.
The campaign spilled into the streets of the northern Indian town last  month after the Supreme Court contemplated ordering the shifting of hundreds  of industries seen as a hazard to the Taj Mahal, one of the world's seven  wonders.
Chanting "we don't want a Taj that hurts our livelihood," industrialists  attempted a siege of the Moghul-built shrine and were blocked by police on  April 27. Thousands of workers staged a similar protest the next day.
A "public awareness" week earlier this month included street-corner  meetings, seminars and rallies to protest any attempts to shift the factories.
"You can't come to my house saying it is dirty, kick me out and pronounce  the place to be clean," said Virendra Kumar Aggarwal, owner of Sterling  Machine Tools, Agra's largest business house.
"There will be wide-spread social chaos if industries are asked to move,"  he warned. "The country will not run if industry is stopped in the name of  protecting heritage."
The Taj Mahal has made Agra, a city of 1.25 million people, India's number  one tourist destination.
It attracts some 2,000 foreign and more than 20,000 domestic tourists a  day and contributes about 150 million dollars a year in foreign exchange  earnings.
Tourism provides a livelihood to 10 percent of the Agra population, but  they are vastly outnumbered by factory workers, believed to number 500,000 and  employed in foundries, brick kilns, leather and glass industries.
"The Taj Mahal may be Agra's pride," a factory worker said. "But industry  is our livelihood. We can't be sacrificed at the altar of the Taj Mahal."
The Taj Mahal was built by emperor Shahjehan as a mark of his love for his  beloved wife Mumtaz Mahal, who died giving birth to their 14th child.
Shahjehan, whose hair turned gray overnight in grief, vowed to build her a  memorial unsurpassed in beauty. Artisans from around the world slaved between  1630 and 1652 to complete the monument.
A sickly yellow pallor blamed on pollution and dark, grimy blotches caused  by millions of hands rubbing over its marble have appeared on the Taj.
It was only last year, when lawyer-turned-Green activist M.C. Mehta's  petition to protect the monument was taken up by the Supreme Court, that the  pollution threat began to be taken seriously.
The court ordered the closure of 212 polluting industries that failed to  reply when asked whether they had installed pollution control equipment.
The latest move contemplating the en-masse shifting of the industries,  cited by scientific reports as the biggest pollution threat to the Taj, sent  shivers up the spine of industrialists. The court ordered experts to study the  issue.
"It is a question of national and international heritage," Mehta, 47, told  AFP. "We have to go for a little sacrifice to save the inheritance."
"We may think a few yellow spots don't matter ... but they are a sign that  marble cancer has set in. We cannot wait for it to spread and then react."
Threats also come from the effluent of a nearby oil refinery and the  exhaust of an estimated 30,000 vehicles that use nearby highways every day.
Some 100,000 diesel generators installed in factories, homes, hotels and   shops have helped raise pollution levels near the Taj to more than twice the  permissible limit.
