The neo-Nazi Afrikaner Resistance Movement  (AWB) cast doubts Thursday on a planned meeting between its leader, Eugene  Terre'Blanche, and President Nelson Mandela.
Mandela announced Wednesday that he was due to hold talks with  Terre'Blanche Monday as part of an initiative designed to draw the white  right-wing into South Africa's new political fold.
But in a statement Thursday, the AWB executive council said it would be  futile to hold talks until an amnesty had been granted to right-wing prisoners  and those awaiting trial.
Thirty-three AWB members -- one arrested on Wednesday -- are awaiting  trial for a bombing spree in the two days before the April 26-29 election that  killed 21 people.
Among the right-wingers in jail are Janusz Walus and Clive Derby-Lewis,  the assassins of communist leader and black hero, Chris Hani.
The AWB said it would study a proposed Amnesty Bill being drafted by  Justice Minister Dullah Omar to decide whether the AWB's preconditions for a  meeting with Mandela's African National Congress (ANC) had been met.
Mandela said on Wednesday that he wanted to meet Terre'Blanche to "address  the problems of the ultra-right so it can be included in the process of using  peaceful methods."
As with most far-right organisations in South Africa, the AWB is demanding  the establishment of a "volkstaat," or separate white homeland for Afrikaners,  warning that it is prepared to take up arms to realise its goal.
Only one right-wing group, the Freedom Front headed by retired military  general Constand Viljoen, took part in South Africa's first all-race election  last month, which swept the ANC to power.
The rest boycotted the poll to press their demands for the establishment  of a volkstaat.
According to the domestic news agency SAPA, Viljoen, whose party won 2.17  percent of the vote in the election, announced in Cape Town Thursday that a  20-member Volkstaat Council had convened for the first time.
Set up under the interim constitution which came into effect on April 27,  the Council is charged with drawing up a report on the boundaries, powers and  structures of the proposed Afrikaner homeland.
Warning that lasting peace depended on a constitutional solution for  Afrikaners, Viljoen said that he hoped an amnesty deal for the AWB would draw  that organisation into the peace process.
"Let us give the Volkstaat Council a fair chance," Viljoen said. "It might  satisfy Mr. Terre'Blanche and solve conflict."
The council comprises mainly Afrikaans academics and lawyers and Afrikaner  cultural activists.
"We tried to steer away from political appointments," Viljoen said.
