Canadian racer Paul Tracy expected a  front row start, and maybe a pole position, for the Indianapolis 500.
Instead, he will begin the May 29 race in the 10th row, trailing 27 other  cars.
A concussion suffered Friday in a practice crash kept Tracy from  qualifying until Sunday, ending hopes of a front-row spot alongside Penske  teammates Al Unser Jnr and Emerson Fittipaldi.
"It's disappointing because I had a shot at the pole," Tracy said. "I  don't think we would have had much problem putting all three on the front row."
Mercedes engines dominated practice here, powering Fittipaldi to the  outside of row one in addition to putting Unser on the pole.
Tracy qualified Sunday in Unser's back-up car. His four-lap qualifying  speed of 222.710 mph (356.336 km/h) was 7.2 mph (11.5 km/h) below his top  practice speed on the 2.5-mile (4km) oval.
Tracy was released from hospital Saturday but not cleared to drive until  Sunday despite his insisting he was ready to race.
"I could have run Saturday but the doctors would not let me," Tracy said.  "I have run in worse condition."
Tracy slammed into the third-turn wall at 240 mph (384 km/h) after hitting  the highest speed of his career.
"We were set up well Friday and just doing some fine tuning before the  crash," Tracy said. "I took turn three quicker than I had ever gone before. I  went out and kind of slid around it. Basically the tire couldn't hold the  corner speed."
Tracy's bid Sunday was nipped by warmer, windier weather compared to  Saturday.
"The heat came up and killed most of the speed," he said. "The weather  screwed up any chance we had at a decent time. I had a lot of understeer and I  lost a lot of power on my third lap. I thought my speed was pretty good for  running in the heat of the day."
Even though Tracy has the most powerful motor at Indy, he must move  through slower traffic before challenging the leaders.
"It's going to be tough but it's a long race," Tracy said. "We have to be  patient and move up during the race. We have the power to do it. We won't have  clean air like the cars up front, so I will have to adjust to that. I would  have liked to be higher in the field, but I haven't given up on the race."
js95bb
