Cambodia's two prime ministers left here  Tuesday for peace talks in Pyongyang with the Khmer Rouge, calling for a  nationwide ceasefire as government forces announced the capture of a strategic  town.
"We will propose to the other side to agree on the ceasefire," co-premier  Prince Norodom Ranariddh told reporters at Phnom Penh airport prior to his  departure. "The bottom line will be to implement the ceasefire," he added.
Co-premier Hun Sen said the ceasefire proposal would top the agenda at the  talks beginning Friday but added that, despite the government's desire for a  ceasefire, he expected the Khmer Rouge to continue fighting if talks failed.
Meanwhile, the government announced that the army had driven Khmer Rouge  rebels from Treng in northwest Cambodia, restoring the government's frontline  to the position it held prior to a disastrous offensive earlier this year.
Government forces recaptured Treng on Monday, but the number of casualties  was still unknown, Defence Minister Tea Banh said Tuesday, adding that the  town had been completely demolished by the Khmer Rouge.
The report was later confirmed by a senior western diplomat.
Finance Minister Sam Rainsy told reporters at Phnom Penh airport "the  situation is now exactly the same as the day we started our military operation  to attack the Khmer Rouge."
He was referring to a disastrous offensive in which government troops  captured the Khmer Rouge base at Pailin, before losing it one month later, and  being driven back to within 15 kilometers (9 miles) of Cambodia's second city  of Battambang.
But he added that although this was "exactly the same situation as a few  months ago ... in the meantime we have lost hundreds of lives, millions of  dollars ... for nothing."
While government forces and the Khmer Rouge continue to battle it out in  the northwest, Prince Ranariddh and Hun Sen have agreed to an unconditional  ceasefire proposal from King Norodom Sihanouk that would begin June 15.
The proposal -- under which a joint commission to monitor the ceasefire  would be set up -- has yet to be accepted by Khmer Rouge nominal leader Khieu  Samphan, who will be participating in the peace talks in Pyongyang.
Khieu Samphan said he would attend the talks after the co-premiers agreed  to drop a ceasefire precondition for holding the talks, in response to an  appeal by King Sihanouk, who said the condition was blocking the peace process.
Hun Sen -- who has been strongly opposed to making concessions to the  Khmer Rouge -- said the talks would be based on a peace plan proposed by the  king, who left here June 18 for medical treatment in Beijing.
The plan includes giving certain "acceptable" members of the Khmer Rouge  senior cabinet posts in exchange for giving up their zones, ceasing all  guerrilla activities, and merging rebel fighters with the royal armed forces.
The Khmer Rouge were reponsible for the deaths of almost one million  Cambodians during a four-year reign of terror that ended when Vietnamese  troops entered Phnom Penh in early 1979.
Both co-premiers are expected in Beijing on Wednesday to meet with King  Sihanouk prior to the peace talks, which are also to be attended by National  Assembly chairman Chea Sim.
Prince Ranariddh will spend one night in Hong Kong before leaving for  China, while Hun Sen will stop over in Singapore.
