Russia's political leaders -- from President Boris  Yeltsin to opposition leader Alexander Rutskoi -- are trying to win over  dissident writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn, three days after he set foot on  Russian soil and ended his 20-year forced exile.
Yeltsin was the first to hold out a hand to the celebrated writer one day  after he arrived in the Pacific port city of Vladivostok with a telegram  welcoming Solzhenitsyn to his native land.
"I am certain that your talent and experience as a thinker and historian  will help in rebuilding Russia," Yeltsin said.
Yeltsin's arch foe, Alexander Rutskoi, meanwhile claimed that  Solzhenistyn's views were close to the opposition movement he represents.
"I have no doubt" that Solzhenitsyn will soon feel "close to the spiritual  and patriotic opposition," Rutskoi said, adding that he would like to meet the  writer of the "Gulag Archipelago," an epic work that exposed the horrors of  Soviet labour camps.
Solzhenitsyn, who was stripped of his citizenship and expelled from the  former Soviet Union in 1974, has returned to carve out a role as a spiritual  leader in the new Russia but he has firmly asserted that he would stay away  from partisan politics.
That may prove to be almost impossible in light of the writer's  controversial views on minority rights for Russians in the former Soviet  republics and his stern criticism of communists and of the former party elite.
The speaker of the State Duma, Ivan Rybkin, himself a former party  apparachik, also welcomed Solzhenitsyn's return and invited him to meet with  deputies of the lower house of parliament which is dominated by Yeltsin  opponents.
"My heart warms as I witness the return of our best people to their native  land," Rybkin said.
But Solzhenistyn appears to remain aloof amid the political jockeying and  has refused to comment on the Yeltsin telegram as well as the ongoing efforts  to co-opt him.
At his first news conference, Solzhenitsyn addressed his harshest  criticisms to former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, whom he described as  a "hypocrite," and ultranationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky, dismissed as "a  caricature of a patriot."
Solzhenistyn also denounced what he termed to be the "false democracy" of  today's Russia and lambasted the government's privatisation program as a  "sham."
But his criticisms of the current government were not necessarily music to  the ears of the hardline opposition, and communist leader Gennady Zyuganov  stressed in his comments Monday that the writer had been away from his  homeland too long.
"Internal political processes are difficult to grasp after a 20-year  absence," Zyuganov said and suggested that the 75-year-old writer might no  longer have the "strength and health" necessary to engage in political debate.
Meanwhile, reform architect Yegor Gaidar, who now heads the reformist  Russia's bloc in parliament, refused to join in the speculation over  Solzhenitsyn's role.
"I respect the works of Alexander Issaevich," Gaidar said in a television  interview. "But I will not hazard a guess as to when he will want to play  political games."
Solzhenitsyn, his wife Natalia and sons Stepan and Yermolai were to make a  long cross-country journey on the trans-Siberian train from Vladivostok to  Moscow.
The trip was to allow the returning writer to re-acquaint himself with his  native land and the fundamental changes that have occured with the fall of  communism and the birth of democracy.
