War and the critical state of the economy in  troubled Georgia has brought about the near collapse of the country's  healthcare system and has threatened the Transcaucasian republic with a flood  of diseases not seen for decades.
Georgia's latest health scare is rabies. According to the country's  deputy chief surgeon, Madonna Jurbenadze, 17 Georgians have died from rabies  in the last year and she estimates that a further 15,000 could be infected  with the disease.
"In the past we had vaccines from Russia but Russia has stopped providing  us with medicines. We can't afford to buy them now," she said.
Many "bezdomny" -- stray dogs -- wander the streets of the Georgian  capital Tbilisi, often in packs, in search of food, as their owners can no  longer afford to keep them.
Jurbenadze said the regions of Guria and Mingrelia in western Georgia --  where domestic animals are attacked by rabid wolves, foxes and jackals from  the surrounding forests -- are the worst-affected areas.
The instability in Georgia, particularly the mass movement of refugees  who fled the conflicts in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, has led to crowded  living conditions and a breakdown in sanitation.
The lack of funds has left Georgia's health service ill-equipped to deal  with the resulting increase in respiratory, intestinal and parasitic  infections.
"The vaccination system has collapsed and immunisation programmes are  almost non-existent because the (Georgian) Ministry of Health simply can't  afford it," said Dr Piero Calvi, in charge of the International Red Cross's  healthcare programme in the Transcaucasus.
Calvi explained that not only the lack of medicines but the lack of  electricity, money for soap and other basic necessities have brought about the  deterioration in sanitation in Georgia. "Vaccines have to be refrigerated -  this is impossible in many parts of the country," Calvi claimed.
The doctor in charge of Tbilisi's Polyclinic No.9, Tamara Kiknadze, a  vigorous 70 year-old with steely grey hair pulled back into a tight bun and  surrounded by heaps of rotting medical journals, claimed she had enough  vaccines to treat the recent increase in potential rabies cases and claimed  the government provides enough electricity.
But her polyclinic has to operate with virtually no funds. "My salary is  450,000 coupons a month (around 50 US cents). For someone with my experience,  it's a joke," said Kiknadze.
She claimed that her patients have to pay only for their medicines, and did  not go along with Calvi's description of a "wild privatisation" of Georgian  healthcare.
"Healthcare, once absolutely free, is now provided at cost -- patients  bring their own bedding, their own food and must pay the nurses if they want  to be washed," said Calvi.
In Tbilisi's Clinical Hospital No.4, patients' relatives cook by their  bedsides on small electric rings. And they pay the surgeons with whatever they  have.
A doctor opened a cupboard in his office to reveal several bottles of  vintage Georgian cognac, his latest earnings.
But such payments are not enough to buy parts for diagnostic equipment and  other essentials, much of which does not function. One of the hospital's  departments has been given over to a commercial enterprise bottling soft  drinks.
Miraculously, Georgia's infant mortality rate is only around 15 in every  1,000 live births -- almost as low as in western Europe.
But Calvi warned: "The impact of the crisis has yet to be felt. Maybe it  won't be with the help of humanitarian aid, but the situation is serious."
