Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was expected to  breeze through a vote of confidence in the lower house Friday, his final  parliamentary hurdle before his government's radical free-market program faces  its real test.
Berlusconi was to address the 630 deputies around 1500 GMT for a  last-minute grilling by the opposition about his plans for heavily indebted  Italy's economic recovery.
But there was little doubt his fractious right-wing alliance which swept  elections last March -- and scraped through a Senate confidence motion by a  single vote Wednesday -- would win the lower-hour ballot Friday evening.
With Berlusconi's Forza Italia party, the neo-fascist National Alliance,  the federalist Northern League, and a sampling of other conservative  supporters, the coalition can count on support from 365 deputies, well above  the 316 needed for a majority.
Some of the Christian Democrats, the party that dominated four decades of  Italian politics before its ranks were discredited in the "clean hands"  corruption probe, are also expected to back Berlusconi.
If so, they will follow the example of some of their Senate colleagues who  saved the Berlusconi government in the upper house ballot by ignoring party  directives to vote against it.
A confident Berlusconi, reveling in his Senate win, took pains to shake  hands Thursday with one of the key opposition figures, former lower house  speaker Giorgio Napolitano, seemingly unperturbed by critics' barbs that his  economic program was "vague and empty."
Provided he gets through the lower house vote, Berlusconi however will  enter a critical 100-day trial period during which he has pledged to launch an  ambitious economic package to create one million new jobs by the end of 1996  and cut government spending.
Investors have adopted a wait-and-see attitude, warning that the slim  Senate win showed that government projects could easily run into Senate  opposition and may need drawn-out negotiations to pass.
Berlusconi could get around this by resorting to government decrees to  impose economic changes in line with a policy adopted by previous government.
But a key voice for the industrialist sector, Senator Franco De Benedetti  of the center-left Democratic Alliance and brother of Olivetti chief Carlo De  Benedetti, warned there was a risk that Berlusconi's cabinet would still be  riven between those who favor a strong central government and the  pro-federalists, between the interests of big business and small firms.
The leftist opposition Friday came down on Berlusconi on a different tack,  blasting what they saw as his unholy alliance between politics and sport.
Business tycoon-turned-politician, Berlusconi is also president of AC  Milan, Italy's most successful football club in a country that worships the  sport.
AC Milan won the European Champions Cup over Barcelona Wednesday, the same  day Berlusconi pulled through the Senate vote -- a double victory for  Berlusconi that did not escape the media or Berlusconi himself.
The prime minister, who views his government as a "team" and calls his  deputies "Azzuri," the nickname for the blue-clad AC Milan players, hailed  sport in his Senate speech as a "factor for cohesion and socialization."
But Massimo D'Alema, number two in the leftist ex-communist Democratic  Party of the Left, urged Italians to look back into history to see "what  regimes traditionally placed emphasis on sport," in an interview with the  Corriere della Sera paper Friday.
"It was the authoritarian regimes."
