A strain of deadly mutant bacterium that destroys  human flesh and can kill in hours has claimed three more lives, bringing the  confirmed death toll in Britain this year to nine, it was reported Wednesday.
In addition, there were reports of two other deaths, not yet officially  connected with the gangrene-like infection, necrotizing fasciitis, which would  bring the toll in Britain to 11.
The latest confirmed deaths were of a 57-year-old man and a woman in her  sixties at the Royal Hampshire County Hospital in Winchester, southwest  England, and a 58-year-old housekeeper who died last month at her home in West  Sussex, southeast England.
Robert Lapraik, head of St Richard's Hospital in Chichester, where a  post-mortem was done on the West Sussex woman, said she had contracted the  infection "in the community," but did not elaborate.
Royal Hampshire officials said the man died within hours of being admitted  to the hospital in March and the woman died in April.
Microbiologist Matthew Dryden said both suffered necrotising fasciitis,  which is caused by a strain of streptococcus-A bacteria believed genetically  transformed into a killer microbe by a viral attack.
"It is a horrid organism and it can cause absolute devastation in a matter  of hours," said Dryden.
"By the time this man came into hospital it was too late for us to do  anything.
He said the man died in hours after the bacterium ate through the flesh of  his shoulder and upper arms. The woman was suffering a milder form of the  infection but also died in hours.
Dryden said five other people admitted to the hospital this year suffering  from the condition had survived.
A woman in her mid-20s died suddenly on Tuesday after doctors believed  they had cured her of the infection she contracted after giving birth by  Caesarean section.
Her death at Queen Mary's University Hospital in southwest London came as  government ministers and health officials were seeking to allay public fears  of contagion.
A statement from Queen Mary's said the woman had been transferred from  another hospital for "further management of wound problems."
"From a surgical point, the patient had been completely cured of the  infection and was to be discharged tomorrow," it said. "Sadly, she died  suddenly."
Experts said unaltered streptococcus-A is a usually harmless organism that  lives in the throats of about 10 percent of the population.
Three people were known to have died in Gloucestershire, where three  others were saved by surgury and a seventh -- a 45-year-old woman -- was still  in serious condition Wednesday.
The two other deaths were in Essex and south London earlier in the year.
Norman Begg, deputy director of the Public Health Laboratory Services  Communicable Diseases Surveillance Centre, said all suspected cases of the  killer infection were being followed up in a nationally coordinated  investigation.
"At the moment we've got no evidence that this particular disease, or  indeed other infections due to streptoccocus, is increasing in the country at  the moment," he told BBC Radio.
He said the seven-case "cluster" in the Gloucester area was statistically  unusual, but stressed that laboratory analysis of the cases showed they were  of different streptococcal strains.
