Ethnic slaughter and civil war have emptied the  fertile northern farmlands of Rwanda, once one of Africa's most densely  populated countries.
As neighboring countries struggle to feed and shelter a massive influx of  refugees from the killing fields of Rwanda, the lush northern third of the  small central African country, formerly its bread basket, has been abandoned  to nature.
Overgrown banana and tea plantations and fields choked with wild grasses  and weeds are the grim legacy of the war in Rwanda's steep hills and narrow  valleys, where Tutsi herdsmen and Hutu farmers often went hungry even in  peacetime.
Nearly a million people, mostly Hutu peasants, fled northern Rwanda as the  mainly Tutsi rebels of the Rwanda Patriotic Front advanced south last year.
Most have been forced to flee again since the April 6 death of president  Juvenal Habyarimana unleashed an ethnic bloodbath in which up to half a  million people, mainly minority Tutsis and Hutu opposition supporters, have  been killed.
At least two million Rwandans have abandoned their homes to seek a dubious  safety in the hills. Up to half a million others have fled to neighboring  countries, with 320,000 in Tanzania alone.
Another 350,000 people have fled southward from Kigali, well over half the  residents of the capital, where rebels and government soldiers are dug in for  what could clearly still be a protracted struggle.
On the drive south through rebel-held territory from the Ugandan border to  Kigali, rain lashes villages that are deserted except for small knots of  rebels in Wellington boots and black berets, Kalashnikovs rifles slung over  their shoulders.
Ransacked, abandoned huts and houses, pockmarked with bullet holes and  sometimes roofless, line the dirt roads that snake through the green hills of  northern Rwanda.
Occasionally the stench of rotting bodies fills the air in a nauseating  reminder of the violence that has swept the country, its rivers overflowing  with bloated corpses.
For short stretches, the road is jammed with crowds of people walking or  pedaling bicycles.
Tall, slender Tutsi women stroll with children, and pick through mounds of  fruit and vegetables laid out on sacks. But most of the countryside remains  chillingly deserted.
