'Burn out' in tennis is likely to be one of the main  topics of conversation in the corridors of the Roland Garros Stadium when the  French Open Tennis Championships start on Monday.
WTA rules, which currently allow young players to play 12 tour tournaments  after their fourteenth birthdays, may again come under scrutiny following the  latest tennis scandal concerning Jennifer Capriati.
In Miami, Capriati, 18 and a former top-ten player, was arrested this week  for possession of marijuana.
It is the second time in six months that Capriati has been in trouble with  Florida police. In December she was accused of shoplifting an inexpensive  ring, but was let off with a warning.
Capriati, who has not played tennis since she lost in the first-round of  the US Open last aSeptember, was arrested on Monday in a motel where she was  sharing a 50-dollar-a-night room with two other teenagers. They were also  arrested on more serious drugs charges.
Thew incident has sparked renewed speculation among players, coaches and  administrators on whether Capriati, who turned pro at the age of 13, was too  young to be thrust into the world of professional tennis.
Former world number-one Tracy Austin and French Open finalist Andrea  Jaeger of the United States are often quoted as 'burn out' examples caused by  players being exposed to top-level competition too early.
"Capriati's the type of person that would be anybody's friend. She just  wants to fit in and be one of the gang," said Rick Macci, who coached her from  the time she was 10 until just before she turned 14.
But John McEnroe was scathing.
"It's a perfect example of little girls that were put out there way too  early," he said.
McEnroe's own parents insisted he spend a couple of years at University  before he joined the men's tour.
Referring to the teenage super-stars McEnore said: "They don't have a  concept of what five dollars is, let alone five million dollars.
"They are expected to grow up in front of the world."
