The World Bank and the International Monetary  Fund should be reformed or replaced because of their destructive policies, an  environmental and human rights coalition said.
On Tuesday "50 Years is Enough", a coalition of 35 groups, will urge the  United States, the largest contributor to the bank and the fund, to impose a  moratorium on US payments until the institutions change their policies.
The coalition takes its name from the fact that 1994 is the 50th  anniversary of the World Bank and IMF founding. Among the coalition members  are Oxfam US, Greenpeace USA and Friends of the Earth-US.
The group said the bank and the IMF "marginalize the poor, plunder the  environment and block true, sustainable growth in Third World and East  European nations."
Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, last year held up  1.25 billion dollars of the US contribution to the bank.
This year, Frank, the chairman of the House subcommittee that approves US  World Bank and IMF contributions, is eyeing 100 million dollars the United  States proposed for the IMF.
Frank wants to block the money until both the bank and the fund allow more  public access and input to their operations and decisions.
There has been a tendency in both institutions "to regard democracy as an  unfortunate interference with rational economic policy," he said in an  interview with AFP.
To create greater transparency, the World Bank in the past year has  expanded its disclosure policy and created a three-man inspection panel that  is to act on complaints by groups in countries adversely affected by bank  projects.
IMF spokesman Graham Newman said the fund has become more transparent over  the years and has tried to get a broad level of local input. He added the IMF  can attempt to broaden participation, but in the end its activities are still  carried out on a government level.
Frank is scheduling hearings the week of June 20 for non-government  organizations to testify about World Bank and IMF actions to fulfill their  pledges.
The Cato Institute, a Washington-based libertarian think tank, has called  for shutting the agencies down.
Cato members say the bank and the fund have channeled money directly to  governments without controlling how it is used. In many cases the money has  been wasted, gone to poorly planned projects or has propped up oppressive  regimes, they argue.
"They have never found a thug or a socialist they didn't like," said Doug  Bandow, a former special assistant to president Ronald Reagan and co-editor of  a just-released Cato Institute book highly critical of the institutions.
A congressional source said that developed nations could do more good by  lowering tariff and non-tariff trade barriers than by extending more aid to  developing nations.
The IMF and the World Bank - also known as the International Bank for  Reconstruction and Development - were created in 1944 at the Bretton Woods  conference.
The 177-member World Bank provided loans for 122 projects in 44 countries  totalling almost 17 billion dollars in fiscal year 1993. Disbursements for the  178-member IMF reached roughly 7.3 billion dollars in fiscal year 1993.
