A federal judge sentenced three of four Moslem  fundamentalists to 240 years each in prison Tuesday for the bombing of the  World Trade Center last year, saying he expected them to die behind bars.
Mohammed Salameh, 26, Mahmud Abouhalima, 34, Nidal Ayyad, 26, and Ahmad  Ajaj, 28, were convicted March 4 of all counts in the February 26, 1993  attack, which killed six people and injured more than 1,000.
Salameh, who rented the van that carried the bomb, and Ayyad, who ordered  chemicals used in making the bomb, and Abouhalima, who helped make the bomb,  were each sentenced to 240 years in prison. Ajaj's sentencing was still  pending.
"My intention is you stay there (in prison) for the rest of your life," US  District Judge Kevin Duffy told Salameh.
"It is the mark of a sneak and a coward to plant the bomb to kill  innocents and to steal away, and that's what you are -- a coward," he said.
He said he arrived at the sentence by calculating the number of years of  life the victims were deprived of -- 180 by his count -- and then added 30  years for each of the other two counts against Salameh.
The judge also fined each defendant 250,000 dollars and ruled that any  proceeds from book or movie rights would go to survivors of the victims.
Before handing down the sentences, Duffy let the defendants speak and also  allowed the husband of a pregnant clerical worker killed in the blast address  the court.
"I'll never get a chance to see him grow up," said Ed Smith of the boy his  wife was carrying. "We all lost this because of four men who wanted to blow up  landmarks in New York."
Salameh protested his innocence. "I wonder how long I will remain in  prison until the government reveals I am innocent. Two years? Seven? Ten?  Twenty? God only knows," he said.
Salameh was a follower of blind Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, who goes on trial  in September on charges of leading a 15-member terrorist group responsible for  the World Trade Center bombing and a foiled plot to bomb the United Nations  and other New York landmarks.
The explosion in the heart of New York City's financial center was the  first of its kind here and raised fears that the scourge of Middle East  terrorism had spread to the United States.
The four were accused of making a huge but unsophisticated bomb and  parking it under the 110-story twin towers of the World Trade Center in a  rented van.
When the bomb detonated just after noon, the explosion ripped open a  60-meter (200-foot) crater, destroyed parked cars, and caused the roof of the  mezzanine of an adjacent train station to collapse, trapping dozens of people.
The four were quickly arrested -- easily traced by the FBI because Salameh  had used his own name in renting the van and a storage locker where the  materials used in building the bomb were made.
According to evidence presented at a trial lasting more than five months,    Abouhalima helped build the bomb while Ayyad, besides ordering chemicals,  wrote a letter to the New York Times claiming responsibility for the attack.
Ajaj was accused of bringing in a bomb-making manual when he arrived in  the United States September 1, 1992.
But two other suspects in the case escaped. Ramzi Yousef, 26, whom  prosecutors described as the ringleader, was believed to be in Iraq with the  second fugitive, Aboud Yassin, 33.
Their lawyers argued that the prosecution had exagerated the evidence  agains the four, but Salameh's lawyer acknowledged in closing arguments that  his client was involved in a bombing conspiracy as an unwitting dupe.
