A group of French intellectuals entered the European  Union elections Friday, presenting France's interior ministry with a "Sarajevo  list" and throwing mainstream parties into disarray.
Launched on May 15 by journalist and writer Bernard-Henri Levy, the  "Europe Starts at Sarajevo" group vowed to fight the June 12 poll on calls for  an immediate lifting of the UN arms embargo against the Moslem-dominated  government of Bosnia-Hercegovina and rejection of a European plan for an  ethnic carve-up of the former Yugoslav republic.
Medical professor Leon Schwartzenberg, who heads the list, said: "If by  chance there was peace in Bosnie-Hercegovina or the integrity of Bosnian  territory was recognised and the ethnic partition abandoned, of course we'd  withdraw the list."
Among the non-French candidates on the list, are American writers Susan  Sontag and Paul Auster, South African nobel laureate Nadine Gordimer and a  former mayor of Belgrade, Bogdan Bogdanovic.
The entry of the intellectuals into the political fray has forced both the  conservative government and socialist President Francois Mitterrand to defend  their position on Bosnia, and has placed the war there at the heart of the  European electoral campaign.
Among the mainstream politicians, only Socialist Party leader Michel  Rocard has come out in favour of the intellectuals, distancing himself from  both Mitterrand and many in his own party.
The Sarajevo list, made up of journalists, writers, artists, actors and  university teachers, has demonstrated support of between seven percent and 12  percent in the two most recent polls, hurting the socialists and the  independent leftwinger Bernard Tapie in particular.
Levy said the showing in the polls was "a slap in the face for the policy  of capitulation" by European foreign ministers.
Levy, who presented a film on the Bosnian war at the recent Cannes film  festival denounced Mitterrand's "self-satisfied resignation" at events in  Bosnia and condemned the "indecency" of "making out that for two years he has  been protecting the Bosnians from themselves."
Mitterrand said Wednesday that he would not "add war to war" by lifting the  arms embargo and reiterated his support for international negotiation and a  sharing out of Bosnia between the warring parties.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe, warned of the spectre of a "a real  Hundred Years war, with its procession of deaths, ruins, refugees and lasting  hatreds."
