Dan Rostenkowski, one of Congress' most  influential members and key to President Bill Clinton's health care reform,  was facing political ruin Thursday over charges he abused his office.
The Illinois Democrat has until Tuesday to decide whether to accept a plea  bargain which would end his 36-year political career but let him off with a  short prison term or face a lengthy trial and almost certain conviction.
Rostenkowski, who has been busy presiding this week over the crucial  health care reform debate, has not yet announced his decision but reports  Thursday said he was opting for a court battle, a decision in keeping with his  reputation as a tenacious fighter weened on tough Chicago politics.
Few are willing to wager which way "Rosty" will go, and calls to his  unundated office are greeted with: "You have reached the Ways and Means  Committee office where nobody's willing to fess up and answer the phone."
When finally reached, his press aides denied the reports with a harried:  "Wrong, wrong, wrong!"
Indeed, Rostenkowski's potential demise is a hotly pursued in the capital,  where the president is feverishly working to push his health care reform bill  through Congress.
Clinton is counting on Rostenkowski, who heads the lower chamber's  appropriations committee and is unquestionably the best deal-maker in  Congress, to get a reluctant Congress to approve the plan.
Democratic lawmakers here are also on tenterhooks over Rostenkowski's  decision, worrying that the cloud over him will drift over to the November  legislative elections, when there are 21 seats up for grabs.
"Something fairly significant is happening in this country," said  political analyst Jerome Climer, noting that for the first time in his memory  Republicans are fielding more candidates for Congress than Democrats.
Just this month, two Republicans won seats long-held by the Democrats in  special elections and with the Democrats in control of both the Congress and  the White House, the time is ripe for anti-imcumbent sentiments.
Moreover, the charges facing Rostenkowski stem from the Congressional Post  Office scandal which implicated several members and sparked an outcry about  abuse of public office.
Rostenkowski was initially charged with trading office stamps for cash but  further investigation led to charges he hired ghost employees and spent office  funds on gifts and and furniture.
But the 65-year-old legislator himself could brave even this storm.
At 1.88 meters, 91 kilograms (6 foot 2 inch, 200 pound), Rostenkowski is a  force to contend with both physically and politically.
He won his primary this year with over 50 percent of the vote in a five-way  race even though the revelations about his conduct were flying fast and  furious and his fellow lawmakers were calling for an ethics probe.
The March primary win was just the latest in a series of landslide  victories in the midwest state for Rostenkowski.
Back home in Chicago, he was dismissed early on as just another cog in the  wheel of the sleazy political machine which has made the big city legend, but  in Washington he honed his horse-trading skills to a fine art and managed to  push through historic legislation, such as a major revision of the tax code.
Even his staunchest opponents have grudging admiration for the  back-slapping, tough-talking legislator.
"He is a big man who did a big job. You hate to see any human being go  through this kind of agony," House Republican whip Newt Gingrich, a bellicose  leader of the chamber's right wing, told the Washington Post.
