Australian media magnate Kerry Packer amassed 2.5  billion Australian dollars (1.8 billion US) in 1993, according to a report  Friday on the country's 200 wealthiest people.
Packer's personal nest egg increased to 5.5 billion dollars, easily making  him Australia's richest individual and putting him on a par with the wealth of  media king Rupert Murdoch's family, the Business Review Weekly said.
His Consolidated Press Holdings increased net cash flow nearly 50 percent  last year to 720 million dollars and his wealth stretched from media and  telecommunications to chemical and pastoral industries.
"For a man who supposedly gave up business seven years ago, Kerry Packer  hasn't done too badly," said an article by his unofficial biographer Paul  Kelly, author of The Rise and Rise of Kerry Packer.
According to Kelly, the 56-year-old's fortune had mulitplied five-fold  since 1987.
The Murdoch family had a fair year too. Rupert Murdoch is a US citizen but  the fortune held by his mother and sisters, who are based here, increased by  one billion dollars to 5.5 billion dollars as News Corp.'s shares rose.
Australia welcomed its second individual billionaire to the magazine's  rich list as cardboard king Richard Pratt, 59, increased his worth to 1.2  billion dollars from 550 million dollars the year before.
His father, Leon Pratt, started the business after fleeing Poland in the  late 1930s, setting up an orchard business and switching into the profitable  work of providing packaging to fruit growers.
Since taking over after his father's death in 1969, Richard Pratt had  expanded into the United States and now presided over Pratt Industries with  annual sales of about one billion dollars.
"He was an accomplished actor and still occasionally sings publicly, the  latest rendition being 'If I Were A Rich Man' at a celebration before the  wedding of his daughter Louise," the Business Review Weekly said.
Anyone aspiring to the list would need 37 million dollars, the magazine  said, adding that the country's richest 200 people increased their wealth by a  third to 28.5 billion dollars in 1993 as profits, shares and their fortunes  soared.
