President Bill Clinton said will not rush into  choosing his next nominee to the Supreme Court as he missed the Thursday  target date he had set for the announcement.
The wait could signal a change in the Clinton's choices, with the  president possibly avoiding controversy over nominating Interior Secretary  Bruce Babbitt to the post.
Clinton said Tuesday he would make an announcement by Thursday, but the  only word Thursday was that he would hold off. He said he would resist "all  the pressure of time deadlines."
"On these matters," Clinton said, "I tend to keep my own counsel more than  on other things. ... It is one of the few things that the president just does  on his own, of course ultimately with the advice and consent of the Senate."
"I know that this has now become the most pressing story in the capital,  but this is really a story that will have implications for years, indeed  perhaps for decades to come," Clinton added.
Clinton's decision on his appointment to the highest court in the land is  now expected by Friday, giving time for the Senate to confirm his choice  before their summer recess.
Leaks -- particularly from senators consulted about possible candidates --  have indicated that Clinton has narrowed his choice to three names.
Named for life to the Supreme Court, the nine justices have a huge role in  determining the course of American society.
In recent decades, the court has ended segregation, given blacks political  power and legalized abortion, rulings which will have a lasting impact on the  country.
Clinton's hesitation is also due to the opposition the former Arizona  governor might face in his confirmation hearings in the Senate, where his  reputation as a staunch liberal and his political rather than legal background  could be liabilities.
The 55-year-old Babbitt has riled several members with his zealous efforts  to reform the government's management of the country's natural resources and  his crusade to put environmental concerns ahead of economic interests.
