Gaza youths gathered to  taunt Israeli soldiers in Gaza City for a last time on Tuesday, but found  themselves being dispersed by the new Palestinian police force.
The troops guarding the last bastion of the Israeli presence in the city,  the old military governor's headquarters, found themselves the butt of many a  joke.
"When are you leaving my dear," shouted one child, as soldiers watched a  crane remove giant concrete road blocks.
"Get out you old rags, you are no longer at home here," added another boy.
The soldiers did not look best pleased.
They were scheduled to pull out overnight, but an unexplained delay left  them to face the heat for another day.
"Get out of here," threatened one of the infantry men from the Givati  brigade, as he moved forward slowly, gun pointing into the crowd.
But the rules have changed in the final days of the occupation compared  with the routine of six years of intifada when the exchanges were less  friendly. The crack of bullets would long have echoed down the street.
The teenagers were not throwing rocks and the soldiers no longer bothered  trying to arrest ringleaders. After all there was no where left to lock them  up. The Israelis handed over the keys of the main prison to the Palestinians  on Monday.
"We've come to see them for the last time because tomorrow it will all be  over," said a 21-year-old who called himself Munzer.
"I'll miss throwing stones at them because it's got in our blood," added  16-year-old Maher.
Ten-year-old Mohammad was waiting outside the gates for a different  reason. He wanted to be the first into the camp once the Israeli finally quit.  The cartridges and bullets scattered in the dust fetch a high price on the  Strip.
The soldiers finally tried to shove the defiant youths back.
One boy grabbed hold of an M-16 rifle but ran off without it.
"He tried to steal my gun," the offended soldier said, turning to an  officer.
"They think they can do anything now. I have a bullet in the chamber and  if this goes on I'll shoot."
"Calm down, we're leaving soon. Let them go to hell," the officer said.
Moments later a Palestinian police jeep pulled up and clapping and  cheering broke out among the youths.
Out stepped a former unit leader of the Hawks, the armed wing of the main  PLO group Fatah.
Nasser Abu Sououd had been hunted by the Israelis for several years but  now he was in a khaki uniform and armed with a Kalashinkov.
The reversal of roles was played out to the end as the Israeli soldiers  looked on, speechless.
New policeman Abu Massoud ordered the youngsters to go home. And within a  few minutes they did.
