Despite broad opposition here to a military  solution in Haiti, rumors of a US military intervention are growing, fueled by  the defiance of the Haitian military and domestic politics.
After denying a Los Angeles Times story Wednesday that Washington had  decided to use force and that only the timing remained in question, the White  House Friday played down the importance of military exercises in the Caribbean.
According to the Boston Globe, the exercise was devised as a trial run for  an invasion of Haiti.
President Bill Clinton is the source of the sabre rattling, having raised  the threat of military intervention several times this month in his bid to win  the reinstatement of deposed president Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
Skeptical of the muscle-flexing by Washington, which runs contrary to  Clinton's record, the Haitian military has decided to defy the United States  by swearing-in a provisional president, Emile Jonassaint.
In fact, all the opinion polls show that a large majority of Americans  oppose military intervention in Haiti. The Congress also is in no mood for  another foreign adventure.
Clinton also has been apprised of the international community's opposition  to the military option. French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe told him Thursday  not to count on France taking part in such an action to oust General Raoul  Cedras.
UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali made the same point May 4 in a  report to the general assembly calling for a political compromise that could  result in a Haitian solution to the crisis.
Clinton's predecessor, George Bush, made clear his opposition to the  military solution.
"I don't think we ought to put one single soldier on the ground in Haiti,"  he said in a speech Thursday in Massachusetts.
The possibility that the administration will resort to force is being  taken seriously by some, as evidenced by a New York Times editorial urging  Clinton to "stay calm on Haiti."
Thomas Carother, a specialist on Latin America and the Caribbean at the  Carnegie Foundation for International Peace, considers military intervention  "possible, and even likely" within six months for two reasons.
The first, he told AFP, has to do with the situation in Florida, where a  new wave of boat people is feared because of Clinton's recent decision to ease  his policy of immediately repatriating refugees intercepted on the high seas.
It is no coincidence that many of those calling for military action are  members of Congress from Florida.
