The European Union and 70 associated African,  Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) developing nations formally launched mammoth talks  on Friday to update their 20-year-old aid and trade pact known as the Lome  Convention.
The aim was to modernise the convention to bring it into the 21st century  and make it more dynamic, said Greece's European Affairs Minister Theodoros  Pangalos at the opening. Greece is current EU president.
The gathering in the Swaziland capital has given itself until February  next year to hammer out changes amd improved links. At that date, the  1990-1995 financial protocol worth 14 billion dollars is due to be  renegotiated, while the current phase of the Lome Convention expires in 2000.
ACP chairman George Brizan of Grenada told the opening that ACP members  were in a sorry state, unable to diversify their produce and with a shrinking  share of the European market. He appealed to the EU for help in lightening the  ACP debt burden which he estimated at 76 billion dollars overall.
Brizan said the ACP was worried about the Uruguay Round of the General  Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) talks on reordering world trade, since  it "threatens to further erode the preferential advantages which the Lome  Convention is supposed to confer."
The EU for its part wants the ACPs to work harder at making their produce  more competitive. Lack of such competitiveness was the basic problem, Pangalos  said. In private remarks to AFP, he added that ACP production costs were  "prohibitive". The structures of cooperation would have to be changed to  favour "real development projects -- not those of underdevelopment," he said.  The Greek minister warned that to concentrate on improving market conditions  for the basic products of cocoa, coffee, rum, sugar and bananas would simply  immobilise the countries concerned in their under-development.
The EU is also going to push for explicit links between aid allocations  and ACP respect for human rights, including "democratic values, the rule of  law and good governance."
Brizan said during preliminary sessions that the ACP was "unequivocally  committed"' to respecting such rights, but hoped for change "through  instruments of encouragement rather than exclusion or penalties."
