Japanese audio manufacturer Aiwa Co. Ltd. said  Tuesday its group pre-tax earnings more than doubled in the year to March and  announced plans to boost overseas production to as much as 85 percent of the  total.
The subsidiary of consumer electronics giant Sony Corp. posted earnings of  9.8 billion yen (95 million dollars), up from 4.2 billion yen a year earlier.
Worldwide sales jumped 19 percent to 210 billion yen with the ratio of  overseas sales jumping from 74.9 percent of all revenue to 76.8 percent.
Aiwa forecast an even higher profit of 10.7 billion yen for the current  year on improved sales of 240 billion yen, reflecting further efforts to cut  costs.
As part of its restructuring efforts, the company plans to boost its ratio  of overseas manufacturing from the level of 78 percent of all production in  March to between 80 percent and 85 percent this year, officials said.
Aiwa's biggest production base is Malaysia. Singapore ranks second  followed by Japan and Britain, a spokesman said.
The company has expanded its manufacturing presence abroad in recent years  to offset the adverse impact of the stronger yen on overseas sales. Even so,  company officials said, 85 percent is probably the upper limit possible.
In the year just ended, sales of mini stereo units soared more than 40  percent to around 70 billion yen while sales of televisions incorporating  video-cassette recorders jumped almost 60 percent to some 10 billion yen.
By region, sales soared 40 percent in the United States and 23 percent in  both Asia and Africa. European sales were up only slightly but are expected to  do better in the current year with the strengthening of European sales outlets.
Aiwa said it was basing its forecasts on an average exchange rate of 100  yen to the dollar, compared with almost 110 yen last year and shaving about  five billion yen off the company's worldwide earnings before tax.
The sharp appreciation of the yen from an average rate of 124 yen the  previous year slashed almost nine billion yen off consolidated earnings while  depressing global sales by around 20 billion yen, the officials said.
