Federal and Quebec provincial authorities  acknowledged Tuesday the situation on a Mohawk reserve here was painfully  similar to four years ago, just before an uprising that left a policeman dead.
The new dispute is over Mohawk plans to extend a tribal cemetary across a  paved road into ground owned by the local authorities, and used by a posh golf  club.
Four years ago, the dispute was over city plans to extend the golf club to  ground already claimed by the indigenous Mohawks as a burial ground.
Threatening to get tough Tuesday, Quebec Native Affairs Minister Christos  Sirros insisted: "Public order must prevail. The government has instructed the  authorities to take appropriate measures to respond."
The minister added: "There is a line that cannot and should not be  crossed."
But Jerry Peltier, Grand Chief of the Kanesatake Mohawk Reserve, which  adjoins the Oka community some 50 kilometers (30 miles) west of Montreal,  insisted his people were not bluffing.
In reply to Sirros, Peltier said: "This is not a threat, this is a  reality; Force will be met with force."
However, there was some optimism as the tough rhetoric appeared largely to  be a war of words.
A spokesman for the Quebec Provincial Police, Richard Bourdon, said it was  his department's politicy to ensure that "no (police) intervention leads to an  escalation of violence."
He added: "We'll use the laws at our disposal, but with judgment. There  will be no massive intervention."
Canada's federal government, clearly worried that a repeat of the 1990 Oka  crisis might occur, has appointed a Quebec judge to mediate.
The 1990 crisis dragged on for 78 days with a standoff between militant  Mohawk Warriers, as they called themselves, and Quebec Provincial Police.
The mediator, Justice Rejean Paul, confidently predicted: "I think I can  settle this."
Asked how long it would take to settle, he maintained it would be less  than a year.
For their part, the Mohawks continued Tuesday to chop down trees in the  area they say they want to extend their burial ground.
But, in an apparent concession to local authorities, they stopped digging  up the asphalt road between their current cemetary and the planned extension  -- a road that is the main entry for the golf club.
Among those still chopping trees down were four Mohawks named in  provincial arrest warrants on charges of violating municipal property.
In 1990, one policeman was shot dead by an unknown gunman and the Canadian  Army was called in to defuse the situation before the crisis was over.
