French actor Gerard Depardieu and Cannes  veteran Roman Polanski brought some star quality to Cannes Sunday with the  first of Italy's four bids for the Golden Palm.
The two actors -- the biggest celebrities in town so far -- also brought  some knockabout humour to proceedings ahead of the premiere of "Una Pura  Formalita" (A Simple Formality) Sunday night.
"We actors are all huge prostitutes," Depardieu told a press conference  attended also by director Giuseppe Tornatore, whose 1988 Cinema Paradiso was a  huge arthouse hit.
"So that's it: he is not a huge locomotive," responded Polanski, referring  to Depardieu's notorious energy and size. "He's a huge tart," he said, as the  French star struggled to retain his composure.
The movie itself is far from funny. It tells the Kafkaesque tale of a man  arrested in the middle of the night, in the rain, in a wood, who is charged  with a murder he claims to know nothing about.
Polanski's character, the strangely nameless Inspector interrogating him,  is fascinated to discover that the man is no less than Onoff -- his favourite  author, of whom he claims to know every biographical detail.
Through a long and rainy night, the plot thickens gradually to the boil,  as large lapses appear in Onoff's memory of events immediately proceeding his  arrest.
Says Tornatore: "This film has nothing to do with Sicily or the South, a  common aspect of my previous three films. I haven't dealt wih the nostalgic  theme that was so important in "Cinema Paradiso" and "They're all fine."
"And most of all it isn't a pessimistic movie, a characteristic that some  say is particular to my vision of the world."
The film is the first of four Italian offerings in the main competition at  the international film festival here. The others are: "Barnabo delle Montagne"  (Barnabo of the  Mountains) by Mario Brenta, "Le Buttane" (The Prostitutes) by  Aurelio Grimaldi, and "Caro Diario" (Dear Diary) by Nanni Moretti.
Also premiered Sunday is the Canadian entry in the main competition of the  festival, "Exotica" by Atom Egoyan, a fetishistic psychological drama set in a  strip-tease club.
