Washington's decision to unhitch trade from its  human rights agenda caused a sigh of relief in Vietnam, which is hoping the  move will kickstart progress in improving ties and trade with the United  States.
A foreign ministry spokesman said Hanoi was happy President Bill Clinton  decided to grant China most-favoured-nation (MFN) trading status despite  domestic pressures to use trade to force human-rights concessions from  Beijing.
"World opinion has for a long time vigourously argued against linking  economic relations with human rights," the spokesman said, adding that the  decision "was realistic and conformed with current norms in international  relations."
Vietnam, one of only nine countries that is not accorded the low tariff  status by the United States, and is eager to win new markets in America as it  tries to reorient its economy towards exports.
Rice exports to the United States have already begun, but Vietnam is  looking to America as a market for exports of labour-intensive goods such as  clothing, shoes and electronic components that cannot compete while facing  tariffs of upwards of 20 percent.
MFN would bring the tariffs down to around five percent and open up the  world's largest market to Vietnam.
An agreement anounced last week between Hanoi and Washington to exchange  liaison offices in each others' capitals is expected to speed up the process  and could lead to an early normalisation of economic links, although full  diplomatic ties could be some way off.
An official of the US Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong, which lobbied  intensively for the lifting of the US embargo on Vietnam fearing that American  firms were losing out in an emerging market, said the group was expected to  take up the issue of MFN for Vietnam.
But the official said that while economic pressures made it almost  impossible for Clinton to take away China's MFN status, there was less impetus  to award it to Vietnam.
US business interests in Vietnam have been growing rapidly since the end  of the trade ban in February, with 60 firms setting up offices and 20 million  dollars in investment so far.
But trade with the United States is just a miniscule fraction of the 40  billion dollars in exports to the United States from China last year,  according to US figures. American firms have invested about 10.8 billion  dollars in China.
Foreign Minister Nguyen Manh Cam told a press conference during a visit to  Bangladesh last week that Vietnam wanted MFN as soon as possible but  reiterated Hanoi's independent view of human rights.
"We will promote (human rights) further to make a government for the  people, of the people and controlled by the people," he said, echoing the  words of president Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address.
"But first comes the right to live in freedom and independence," he said.
The United States has signalled that human rights would be an important  element in the normalisation process and the two sides have held one round of  talks in New York on the subject.
But a diplomat here said there was still a wide gap between the two sides  and little hope of it being closed soon.
While wielding a firm hand against any dissent, Vietnam has also expressed  its willingness to discuss the issue with other countries, although Swedish  Prime Minister Carl Bildt recently complained that the dialogue on human  rights was progressing too slowly.
MFN is also conditional on free emigration from countries under the  Jackson Vannick amendment introduced to pressure the former Soviet Union into  allowing Jews to leave.
But Vietnam has met the condition through the Orderly Departure Program  that allowed former supporters of the US-backed South Vietnamese government to  emigrate.
Other issues, including the settlement of claims on assets frozen after  the Vietnam war and the 2,234 US service personnel listed as missing in action  from the conflict, still stand in the way of full normalisation.
"We are ready, but the ball is in the American court and I regret that I  cannot say when full diplomatic ties will be restored between our two  countries," Cam said.
