French hope Julie Halard gave the early Roland  Garros centre-court spectators plenty to cheer when she beat ninth-seeded  American Lindsay Davenport to reach the last-sixteen of the women's singles at  the French Open here on Saturday.
The 23-year-old Halard, who has risen to 24th in the world rankings after  an excellent season, took just over an hour to score an impressive 6-4, 6-2  win.
Davenport is the ninth seed to crash out of the women's tournament.
The 6ft 2in (1m 88) American, just 17-years-old and a loser in the  first-round last year when she made her first visit to Paris, tried to hit her  way out of trouble from the baseline.
But Halard, recent winner at Taranto and runner-up at the Paris Indoor  Open, took the initiative and pulled her opponent out of position with  excellent angles and changes of length and direction.
"I knew I had to keep moving her around and keep the pressure on her,"  said the French player, always a dangerous underdog who holds victories over  many of the world's top players.
"I got off to a good start and forced her to make mistakes.
"Having three French players still in the event is marvellous and shows  that we are making a lot of progress. Of course all of us want to play  especially well at Roland Garros in front of the French fans."
Halard, making her eighth appearance in the Championships, now faces  either 31st-ranked Shi-ting Wang of Taipei or seventh-seed and 1988 finalist  Natalia Zvbereva of Belarus for a place in the quarter-finals.
If Davenport failed to find her mark, it was a different story for 1989  champion Arantxa Sanchez.
The 22-year-old Spaniard stayed in full control against Germany's  37th-ranked Barbara Ritter and now plays either Leila Meskhi of Georgia or  eleventh-seed Anke Huber of Germany.
Another French success came when wild-card entry Alexia Dechaume reached  the fourth-round by defeating Italy's Marzia Grossi  6-3, 6-3. She now faces  the winner of the clash between third-seeded baseliner Conchita Martinez of  Spain or big-serving Brenda Schultz of the Netherlands.
So far three French player have reached the last sixteen. Twelfth-seed  Mary Pierce qualified on Friday with a 6-0, 6-0 victory over experienced  American Lori McNeil.
kd94
