The Chinese government is to invest 1.9 billion  yuan (219 million dollars) in its agricultural development programme this  year, up by 200 million yuan over 1993, the China Daily said Monday.
Comprehensive agricultural development programme official Wang Xinjian  said the funds would be used for development of crops, including grain and  cotton, as well as be invested in forestry, animal husbandary, side-line  production and fishery projects.
Some 25 billion yuan has been invested by central and local governments in  the programme since it was launched in 1988, said Wang.
The official's comments come during a government campaign to demonstrate  its renewed commitment to the development of agriculture, amid fears that  disappointing summmer grain and cotton harvests will heighten discontent among  the country's 800 million farmers and boost national inflation.
In recent months, the government has moved to control grain prices --  which surged 40 percent in late 1993 -- by reimposing ceilings and building up  reserves to use to balance the market.
Officials were quoted Monday as putting a positive spin on forecasts that  the summer grain harvest would hit 110 million tonnes.
Although the figure was five million tonnes short of 1993, they said it  was better than had been expected following a chronic drought in northern  China and the encroachment on arable lands by local development projects  during the economic boom of recent years.
Xinhua meanwhile Tuesday quoted the authorities in the northeastern  province of Shandong, one of China's main grain producers, as forecasting a  record harvest this summer.
China's cotton harvest is once again under threat from the bollworm, which  devastated production in 1993, as well as the trend for farmers to abandon the  crop in favour of more profitable activities.
An agricultural official said recently the government was continuing to  raise cotton prices, as well as providing subsidies and offering other  preferential policies to encourage farmers to grow cotton, but acknowledged  that this year's crop would still fall well short of record levels.
