South Korea expects new high-level talks between  Washington and Pyongyang, despite the North's moves to start refuelling a  controversial reactor without inspectors who want to test whether material has  been diverted for nuclear bombs.
Officials, quoted by the press here Sunday, based their expectations on  two things -- the first that only in a third round of high-level talks would  the crucial question of regular and additional nuclear inspections be tackled.
The second, the unnamed officials said in interviews, was that fuel rod  replacement requires at least 15 days of reactor cooling, meaning that the  start announced by the North Saturday could be interpreted as preparation.
"If the IAEA inspectors arriving in North Korea Tuesday conduct  inspections as scheduled, a third round of high-level US-North Korea talks are  highly likely to be held," South Korea's Yonhap news agency quoted one  official in Soeul as saying.
Though both Seoul and Washington interpret the North Korean statement as  saying preparations have started, if it is found to have begun replacing the  rods, then the United States will not hold the third round of talks, the  official said.
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors are scheduled to  leave Vienna for Pyongyang Sunday on an eight-day inspection trip.
Whether they will be able, on the current trip, to determine any attempted  diversion from the spent fuel rods at the five megawat experimental reactor at  Yongbyong, 90 kilometers (56 miles) north of Pyongyang, remains unclear.
US Secretary of Defence William Perry has said that Washington wants to  find out if during a 100-day shut down of the same experimental reactor in  1989 the North tried to extract plutonium to make a bomb.
Perry also warned last month that during the current change the North  could extract enough weapons-grade plutonium to manufacture "four or five  bombs" in addition to the one or two the United States believes it may already  have.
North Korea denies it has any nuclear program, despite its threat a year  ago to pull out of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
It also warned last week that it could not delay the rod replacement  process -- with or without IAEA inspectors -- because the time for the change  had fallen due "like the red oil light on the dashboard of a car."
On Saturday it said in a statement carried by its mouthpiece Korean  Central News Agency monitored in Tokyo that the process had begun.
"Refuelling is taking place under the watch of the cameras installed by  the agency (IAEA)," a North Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman said.
"So there are no grounds for concern about the diversion of the replaced  fuel rods for another purpose," the spokesman said.
In Vienna Saturday night IAEA spokesman David Kyd said the IAEA had  received no official word that refulling had started, and that the agency's  inspectors were still scheduled to leave for North Korea Sunday.
But Kyd cautioned that if refuelling had actually started, it would be a  "grave violation" of existing agrements between North Korea and the IAEA, and  the inspectors would be "immediately recalled."
A foreign ministry spokesman in Seoul, which is in constant close contact  with Washington over the year-long standoff over North Korea's nuclear  ambitions, told AFP Saturday the situation was "far from clear."
But the North Korean spokesman said that Pyongyang was "prepared to store  all the spent fuel under the strict surveillance of the IAEA and fully allow  the IAEA to measure it," when the dispute is settled between North Korea and  the United States.
Analysts here took the phraseology of the North Korean statement as  another sign that the United States and North Korea in low-level talks last  week had already reached an understanding that permission for monitoring the  spent rods was dependent on the third session of talks.
