The candidate of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's ruling  Christian Democrat party led the first round of voting Monday by a special  federal assembly to choose a German president.
Roman Herzog, the conservative chairman of the country's constitutional  court, won 604 of the 1,317 votes cast in a first round by the  specially-convened 1,324-member assembly of federal members of parliament and  delegates of the 16 German regional legislatures.
The Social Democrats' candidate Johannes Rau won 505 votes, the liberal  Free Democrats' candidate Hildegard Hamm-Bruecher won 132 and the independent  candidate Jens Reich won 62 votes cast in the historic Reichstag building.
Reich, who is from east Germany, said he was withdrawing before the second  round, but the far-right Republicans, whose late-entry candidate Hans Hirzel  won 12 votes, said they were maintaining their man. Reich had the support of  the Alliance90/Greens grouping.
A maximum of three rounds is possible and is expected in this case. In the  first two rounds an absolute majority is required to win, but in the third  round a simple majority will suffice.
With only 604 votes, Herzog, aged 60, failed to win the theoretical  maximum 619 that the Christian Union parties dispose of in the race to succeed  Richard von Weizsaecker, who must retire by June 30 after serving two  five-year terms.
At 505 votes, Rau won slightly more than the theoretical 502 his party can  muster.
But the Free Democrats' Hildegard Hamm-Bruecher, with 132 votes, attracted  well over her party's 111 deputies, confirming both the interest of her  candidacy and the party's expected "king-making" role in the run-off.
The Alliance90/Greens grouping has 43 votes and the ex-communist  Democratic Socialists 33. The Republicans, led by former Waffen SS officer  Franz Schoenhuber, have eight votes and there are also eight miscellaneous.
It is not clear how the representatives of the FDP, a partner in Kohl's  ruling coalition, will vote if and when Hamm-Bruecher withdraws -- for Herzog,  for Rau, or split between the two.
A largely honorific post, the presidency is being hotly contested this  year because its outcome is seen as a pointer for federal legislative  elections on October 16.
Rau, 63, of the Social Democrats, is premier of the important state of  North Rhine-Westphalia and a regional party baron.
According to opinion polls, Rau rather than Herzog would win if the  president were elected by universal suffrage.
Strict security was in force around the Reichstag in Berlin where the  assembly was taking place, with the historic building sealed off by hundreds  of police.
Although the ballot is a secret and slow process, with each participant  being called by name to cast his or her ballot, party choices are expected to  be determined by horse-trading on the sidelines.
