US officials were cautiously optimistic that  talks here Thursday could break a three-month deadlock in trade talks with  Japan.
"It is clear there has been movement; how much movement remains the  question," said a senior trade official Wednesday, briefing reporters on the  eve of the talks.
The official said preliminary discussions suggested that the differences  between the two sides were narrowing, but said he had no idea what proposals  the Japanese would bring with them.
"I'm sure we will get past this period of non-negotiations and at some  point will soon get on to restarting these talks," Treasury Deputy Secretary  Roger Altman said in a television interview.
US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor will meet here early Thursday with  Japanese deputy foreign minister for economic affairs Sakayuki Hayashi to kick  off a day of talks it is hoped can pave the way for a resumption of bilateral  trade negotiations which collapsed in February.
But US Treasury Under Secretary Lawrence Summers stressed that the United  States wanted "a concrete, credible agreement going beyond the failure of the  past," not a cosmetic papering over of differences.
Summers also insisted there had not been any backing away in the US  position in the negotiations, an apparent reference to comments by President  Bill Clinton's top economic advisor, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, Tuesday that it may  be time to ease pressure on Japan because of its domestic political upheaval.
Both sides have said they want to make progress before the Group of Seven  summit in Naples in July, and if Thursday's talks can reach agreement to  resume negotiations the summit date could be used as a deadline for accords,  the US trade official said.
Bilateral trade talks collapsed in February over disagreement on how to  measure progress in opening Japan's markets and reducing its 60 billion dollar  trade surplus with Washington.
Since then, Washington has said the door was open for more talks, but it  was up to Tokyo to come up with new proposals so that there was a good chance  of success in the talks.
