Ruud Gullit, who married his companion Christina  Pensa earlier this month, is set for a World Cup honeymoon with Holland after  getting exactly the wedding gift he wanted.
The present was a million dollar contract that AC Milan's owner Silvio  Berlusconi produced to take him back to the Italian champions a year after  they had shown him the door.
The Dutchman would never admit it, but being dropped by Milan last season  may have been the best thing that could have happened to him.
At the time, Fabio Capello's decision to sideline the player whose  majestic play and flowing dreadlocks had made him synonomous with the great,  explosive Milan side of the late eighties was a devastating blow.
But with hindsight the miserable 1992-93 season Gullit endured at the San  Siro before decamping to Genoa -- where he has brilliantly revived his career  with Sampdoria -- may actually have prolonged his career.
Marco Van Basten, Gullit's perennial rival for the starring role at both  club and country, has paid the price for a premature return after ankle  surgery. He will be missing from the Dutch squad in the United States and he  may never play again.
Gullit, in contrast, has survived a series of career-threatening knee  injuries and, as he approaches his 32nd birthday, seems stronger than ever.
How important that part-time season at Milan was to Gullit's full recovery  from injury is impossible to judge. What is beyond doubt however is that being  demoted to the role of occasional substitute provided Gullit with his biggest  challenge -- and he met it in magnificent style.
Sampdoria were not able to deny Capello's Milan a third consecutive title  but Gullit's 15 goals guided them to second place in the league and an Italian  Cup triumph.
Berlusconi admitted the club had blundered and decided to bring Gullit  back, prompting celebrations among Milan fans.
A similar sigh of relief was heard across the Netherlands earlier in the  year when Gullit finally announced he had decided to bury the hatchet with  national coach Dick Advocaat.
Gullit had announced his retirement from the national team after being  substituted by Advocaat during the 2-2 draw with England at Wembley.
