Cambodia is to unveil its first ever entry  in competition in the Cannes film festival Friday, a tale of peaceful rural  life in a country more often associated with the horrors of war.
"Rice People," as well as being Cambodia's first entry to compete in 47  years of festivals here, is also a first feature by Rithy Panh, who will be  competing therefore for the Golden Camera for debutant filmmakers.
For Panh, the film can be seen as telling the story of people learning to  make a living for themselves in the country which has suffered years of civil  war. It began life with a visit by the director to a refugee camp.
"There were the children in the camp. When we asked them 'Where does the  rice come from?' they replied 'From the UN trucks'. They'd never seen a paddy  field," he said in a pre-premiere interview.
But he denies that the film, which contains one dream sequence involving  the Khmer Rouge, is necessarily set in a specific time period. "I particularly  wanted to avoid putting a date on the film," he says.
"My aim is to show peasant life, detached from all context. The film  gaiins strength through its timelessness."
The key turning point in the film is when one of the main characters, the  father of seven daughters, gets a thorn stuck in his foot while working in the  fields. The wound eventually turns sceptic, and he dies.
Panh describes his film in simple terms, in terms of people. "They must  learn how to live in Cambodia, that's to say how to cultivate, to farm and  work the land.
"'Rice People' is an attempt to address this question, to share this sort  of life, and to bear witness to the fragile balance it entails. One small  accident can swing a family into a tragic cycle of death and insanity."
Asked about the problems of making a film in Cambodia, and in particular  with Cambodian actors, he said: "To make a film with Cambodians you have to  gop to their country. But cinema doesn't exist in Cambodia.
"Before teaching them how to act I had to convince them to make a film.  For them cinema means action films from Hong Kong or big melodramas from  India."
The film was given a preview screening here late Thursday, with initial  reaction favourable. "A beautiful piece of work," was one comment from those  emerging from the screening, "although perhaps a litte long."
