A top Moslem militant leader vowed  Wednesday to campaign for the independence of Kashmir, after arriving here to  a hero's welcome following his release after some four years in Indian jails.
But Yasin Malik of the outlawed Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF)  collapsed after beginning his speech before thousands of cheering supporters  in the city's Miasuma district.
"I will continue the struggle until Kashmir is liberated from India," the  JKLF commander-in-chief said to wild clapping before falling and being carried  off a makeshift rostrum.
Malik, 30, underwent heart surgery about a year ago. He had been asked not  to strain himself before he flew out of New Delhi on Wednesday, two days after  being released on bail because of poor health.
JKLF sources said doctors were attending to Malik, who spoke only for a  minute before thousands of Kashmiris chanting "we want freedom" and "the tiger  has returned".
It was one of the biggest recent shows of strength by the JKLF, the only  militant group advocating independence for Moslem-majority Kashmir, which is  divided between India and Pakistan.
Other Moslem guerrilla groups want the Indian portion of Kashmir to join  Pakistan.
Earlier, thousands of men and women had poured out of their homes, singing  and dancing to give a tumultuous welcome to the visibly sick leader.
Malik, who helped launch the Moslem separatist campaign in Kashmir in  1989, was arrested by Indian security forces on the outskirts of Srinagar in  August 1990, and had been in prison since then.
Malik's relative hugged him at the heavily-guarded aiport, while thousands  of well-wishers threw garlands and flowers as he drove into this city at the  head of a 50-strong motorcade which rapidly swelled.
Many JKLF supporters burst firecrackers, while police and JKLF members had  a tough time keeping surging crowds from mobbing Malik, who climbed onto the  roof of a bus to wave at his supporters.
Banners and posters welcoming Malik sprung up on downtown buildings in  Srinagar, and pictures of the JKLF leader were displayed on rooftops and  electric poles. A large crowd also gathered outside his home.
