Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh has clamped down  with an iron fist, arresting hundreds and setting up a spy network in a bid to  check the slightest resistance to the civil war, Western diplomats said.
Members of the southern Yemen Socialist Party (YSP), trapped in Sanaa by  the outbreak of war on May 5, have been forced into hiding after "several  militants have been killed," one diplomat in the region said.
And hundreds of people have been arrested since fighting erupted between  Saleh's troops and those loyal to southern leader Ali Salem al-Baid, he added.
A tight internal surveillance network has been set up in all of the big  cities in the north, but particularly in Sanaa.
"Teams of informers controlled by the security services patrol every  district creating a climate of general suspicion," the diplomat said.
"Any contacts between Yemenis and those foreigners still in the capital  are subject to particular scrutiny," another diplomat said.
Certain Yemenis known for their outspokeness about the government have  received threatening telephone calls warning them to keep quiet, he said.
Newspapers too have stopped appearing as accurate information about the  fighting, now in its fourth week, remains scarce.
Before the conflict more than 50 papers and periodicals were published in  Sanaa and Yemen was proud of being one of the rare countries in the Saudi  Arabian peninsula where freedom of the press and a multi-party system  flourished.
Now the three big official dailies -- At-Thawra, The May 22 and The  September 26 -- are the only papers authorised to appear.
Sanaa residents, like their countrymen in the southern stronghold in Aden,  are in the dark about what is really happening on the front lines, the scene  of fierce fighting as the south tries to hold back a northern advance towards  the city.
"They don't know the real toll of human losses, which is of course their  main concern. But it is a taboo subject which will probably not really be  addressed for a long time," said one diplomat.
He said, quoting Arab doctors working in Sanaa, that "thousands had died"  in the fighting and the capital's hospitals, requisitioned for war casualties,  were "working at full capacity."
An official northern spokesman said a figure of more than 50,000 dead on  both sides -- reported in Saudi Arabia's Al Yaom newspaper -- was too high,  and that a toll would be published soon.
There are fears that the war could deliver Yemen into the hands of the  Islamic fundamentalists as the crackdown continues.
"This is a big step backwards and of course there are circumstantial  reasons, but many Yemenis fear that the situation will continue after the war,  backed notably by the radical Islamists," a diplomat said.
The war has exposed the fragile unity of Yemen created when the former  conservative, tribal North Yemen merged with the Marxist South in May 1990.
The Islamists have backed Saleh in his power struggle with Baid, and "will  not hesitate to remind him of that once things have returned to normal," the  diplomat said.
Meanwhile, numerous civil servants not belonging to Saleh's General  People's Congress or allied organisations have been ordered not to return to  work "until further notice," a source said.
And although the University of Sanaa is still running normally,  intellectual meetings, even those planned before the war, have now been banned.
