Thirty armed Jewish settlers  prayed at the synagogue in Jericho on Sunday for the first time since  Palestinian policemen were posted at the entrance.
"I didn't see any Arab policemen. They don't exist," said rabbi Mordechai  Rabinovich after filing past three Palestinians in olive-green uniforms and  carrying Kalshnikov assault rifles.
"I saw only our soldiers and they alone protect us against terrorists,"  said the rabbi who runs the Jericho yeshiva, or religious studies centre.
The settlers too were armed, most with Uzi machine pistols, as they  entered the building, eyes on the ground to avoid acknowledging the  Palestinians who took control of their first autonomous enclave on Friday.
The policemen looked at the Jews' army escort, Colonel Aviezer, who is in  charge of the area for Israel.
"It's authorized," he told one of the men who opened the gates bearing the  inscription Shalom al Israel, or peace be upon Israel.
Once inside, the rabbis' disciples took their seats on benches and  immediately started praying.
Far-right Israeli MP Hanan Porat of the National Religious Party  accompanied the settlers, as did another rabbi, Eliezer Waldman, who played a  leading role in the Jewish occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
"I am ashamed for the Jewish people and our army," moaned the rabbi  without lifting his eyes from his Talmud.
"As far as I am concerned I will never recognize terorrist authority over  these territories."
A teenager, Uzi across his knees and head covered with a large white  skullcap, added: "Jericho is like Jerusalem. It has always been part of  biblical Israel and it always will be."
The faithful plunged into the study of the conquest of Jericho by the  Hebrews led by Joshuah after the flight from Egypt.
"We do not want any provocation or clashes with the Palestinian police,"  Porat said.
"But we consider it shameful that Israel has signed an agreement which  puts Palestinians in charge of a Jewish holy place. It's a dangerous precedent.
"We will never leave here. We will come to pray every day, then we we will  eat and sleep here. No one can wipe out the Jewish presence in Jericho."
He claimed negotiations were underway to let Jews live in the synagogue,  which boasts 5th-6th century mosaics and has recently been renovated with  money from an anonymous US donor.
In adjoining rooms, a dozen beds with ripped mattresses are lined up. A  basic kitchen has been set up and large pots hang on the walls.
"The Arabs may be having their way today with help from our defence  minsiter (Yitzhak Rabin), but tomorrow the wind will change and we will have  our revenge," said Waldman.
Outside, the Palestinian policemen chatted to Israeli officers and a joint  Palestinian-Israeli patrol passed close by with orange flags atop radio  aerials.
"If the Jews come here just to pray there will be no problem," said one of  the policemen from the Deir el-Balah refugee camp on the Gaza Strip.
Under the Israel-PLO self-rule deal signed on May 4 in Cairo, the house of  prayer is to be administered by the Palestinians in coordination with the  Israeli ministry for religious affairs.
