A special 1,324-member federal assembly began  meeting in Berlin Monday amid suspense and high security to elect a new German  head of state to succeed Richard von Weizsaecker.
Under the constitution, the popular Weizsaecker, 74, must retire by June  30 after serving two five-year terms, and five candidates are vying to succeed  him in what promises to be a close vote.
The winner, who will be the first president elected by representatives of  the reunited Germany, and the seventh head of state of post-war, federal  Germany, takes office on July 1 in a crucial political year.
A largely honorific post, it is nevertheless being hotly contested by the  political parties, as its outcome will be seen as a pointer for federal  legislative elections on October 16.
Strict security was in force around the Reichstag in Berlin where the  assembly was taking place, with the historic building sealed off by hundreds  of police.
Members of the one-day assembly, consisting of the 662 members of the  federal parliament and an equal number of party-nominated delegates of the 16  regional parliaments, were casting their secret ballots in up to three rounds.
Five candidates are in the running, with the late entry of the far-right  Republicans party, but the race is expected to be between the ruling party's  Roman Herzog and the opposition's Johannes Rau.
Herzog, 60, the candidate of the Christian Union parties led by Chancellor  Helmut Kohl, is the favourite and chairman of the constitutional court.
Rau, 63, of the Social Democrats, is premier of the important state of  North Rhine-Westphalia and a regional party baron.
According to opinion polls, Rau rather than Herzog would win if the  president were elected by universal suffrage.
But the outcome is expected to be determined by the minority Free  Democrats, who have their own candidate, Hildegard Hamm-Bruecher, 73. Their  votes could split if and when she is obliged to withdraw.
In the first two rounds of voting, an absolute majority is required, but  on the third a simple majority will suffice, and the Christian Union parties  have more votes at their disposal than the Social Democrats.
There is also an independent from former East Germany standing with the  support of the Greens party, Jens Reich, 55, but he is an outsider.
In presenting their no-hoper Hans Hirzel, 69, the far-right Republicans,  who need to counter their extreme racist image, have chosen a man reputed to  have been in the anti-Nazi resistance.
The Reps, as they are known, are led by former Waffen SS officer Franz  Schoenhuber.
The vote is difficult to predict. The Christian Democratic Union-Christian  Social Union has 619 of the 1,324 votes at their disposal, the Social  Democrats 502 and the Free Democrats 111.
The Alliance90/Greens grouping has 43 votes and the ex-communist  Democratic Socialists 33. The Republicans have eight votes and there are also  eight miscellaneous.
Although the ballot is a secret and slow process, with each participant  being called by name to cast his or her ballot, party choices are expected to  be determined by horse-trading on the sidelines.
But the regional delegates, while party-chosen according to regional  parliament strength, are not necessarily political figures. They include, for  example, Olympic ski champion Katja Seizinger, as well as an astronaut and a  classical trumpeter.
