Summers
(UPDATES with more Summers quotes and background)
WASHINGTON, May 18 (AFP) - The United States wants a concrete, credible  trade agreement with Japan, going beyond the failures of the past, US Deputy  Treasury Secretary Larry Summers said here Wednesday.
"We need a concrete, credible agreement going beyond the failure of the  past," Summers said a day before US and Japanese negotiators meet in  Washington to try to break a three-month deadlock in bilateral trade talks.
Summers said there had not been "any backing away" by the United States in  its position in the negotiations.
Washington has said since bilateral trade talks collapsed in February over  disagreement on how to measure progress in opening Japan's markets and  reducing its 60 billion dollar trade surplus with Washington that it was up to  Tokyo to come up with new proposals.
The US side has said it will not abandon its call for numerical targets to  measure progress in market opening, while Tokyo has rejected such targets,  saying they mean managed trade.
But President Bill Clinton's top economic advisor, Laura D'Andrea Tyson,  said in an interview published Tuesday that it may be time to ease pressure on  Japan because of the domestic political upheaval in Tokyo.
"The issue here is ... trying to moderate or adjust the timing to the  political realities in Japan without changing the overall thrust of the  policy," Tyson said in an interview published in the Washington Post.
Reports in Tokyo Wednesday said that Japan appeared ready to accept  specific targets in the field of government procurement to revive the stalled  trade talks.
During the talks to start Thursday in Washington, the Japanese side is  expected to propose setting "some criteria" to gauge Japanese government  procurement of various products, the Nihon Keizai Shimbun newspaper said.
Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa hinted at a compromise earlier this week,  saying Japan "might show some numerical gauges over government procurement."
