The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation is moving  towards a consensus that Russia should be offered a special partnership with  the alliance, German Defence Minister Volker Ruehe said here Tuesday.
Speaking at a meeting of NATO defence ministers, he said the arrangement  would be separate from the partnership-for-peace programme (PFP) for military  cooperation between NATO and countries of the former Soviet bloc.
Ruehe said NATO had not yet agreed which issues should be included in the  special partnership with Russia, beyond the general principle that it should  comprise a "general dialogue on political and security issues."
But he reported agreement on the inclusion of one topic -- how to control  the spread of nuclear weapons -- although the United States was opposed to  including other issues of nuclear cooperation.
Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev was due to join the meeting at 1600  GMT to outline Moscow's conditions for signing PFP, which has already been  joined by 16 countries of the former Warsaw Pact.
Russia is seeking a relationship with NATO going beyond the PFP programme  of cooperation between the western alliance and countries of the former Soviet  bloc and NATO too is pressing Russia to join PFP.
But Russian President Boris Yeltsin has indicated Russia wants a special  political relationship with NATO, enshrined in writing, as the price for  signing up to the military programme.
NATO has reacted cautiously, particularly because eastern European members  of the PFP are alarmed this could lead to Russian influence on NATO decisions  involving eastern Europe.
Grachev was to present Moscow's terms for joining the PFP later Tuesday,  along with Yeltsin's insistence for a special relationship with NATO outside  the programme, enshrined in writing.
No firm NATO response was expected on Tuesday, since the decision is a  political one which must be decided by a NATO council of foreign ministers.
However, Ruehe said there was a general agreement among the defence  ministers that NATO needed to meet the Russians halfway.
US Defence Secretary William Perry said ahead of the meeting that Russia  could not be granted any special treatment such as veto rights in the PFP.
And Ruehe added that Moscow would never be allowed a veto right over such  decisions as bringing eastern European countries into NATO as full members.
Several PFP members, particularly Poland and Hungary, have made it clear  they see PFP as a halfway house to full NATO membership, a position which has  been received with hostility in Moscow.
However, the German minister said: "If other countries have the  possibility to join NATO as real members and Russia cannot, we must give the  Russians something else."
Ruehe conceded that Russia could not be given any special status in the  PFP. "There cannot be a formal protocol linked to the partnership, but outside  it nothing is excluded," he said.
The United States has ruled out any formal commitment to special  NATO-Moscow links, although US officials say they favour a gradual evolution  in such links.
Apart from nuclear non-proliferation, other issues under consideration for  inclusion in a NATO-Russian partnership are the conflict in Bosnia-Hercegovina  and peace-keeping in the former Soviet republics.
Meanwhile, Perry called for a rapid deepening of the PFP. He urged NATO   countries to boost defence planning, including joint military exercises with  the former Warsaw Pact members of PFP.
The US defence secretary added: "We have before us a historic opportunity  to build a new trans-Atlantic security system that will ensure peace and  stability in all of Europe well into the next century."
