The Bosnian Moslem government and Bosnian Croat  representatives Saturday marked their agreement to set up a federation in  Bosnia-Hercegovina with a ceremony in the presence of US Secretary of State  Warren Christopher.
Also present at the ceremony in the US embassy in Geneva, and representing  the government in Zagreb, was the Croatian Foreign Minister Mate Granic.
Christopher said the federation agreement, which has been negotiated  step-by-step over the last two months in Bonn, Vienna and Washington under the  auspices of special US envoy for ex-Yugoslavia Charles Redman, was "already  paying dividends" in terms of peace and humanitarian relief.
Croat and Moslem Bosnian forces, which had been allied against Serb  forces, began fighting last year, particularly in central Bosnia for control  of the Hercegovina town of Mostar before talks on the federation agreement  began to take serious shape.
Christopher said guns had been silenced over a distance of 200 kilometres  (120 miles) and supply lines opened up to allow in humanitarian relief, thus  alleviating the suffering of thousands of people.
"A framework has been established for protecting the political and human  rights of the people who live in the federation borders. These are truly  significant accomplishements.
"Where there was war and suffering there is now the promise of peace and  democracy. The darkness of the inter-ethnic strife is slowing giving way to a  glimmer of reconciliation."
The US secretary of state, playing tribute to the role played by Croatian  minister Granic in reaching the accord, said it provided the basis for  regional cooperation and was a first step toward lasting peace in  Bosnia-Hercegovina.
But this would require patience, goodwill and recognition on all sides  that the interests and future of people in the region, especially that of  children, could only be secured by sincere, prolonged and difficult  negotiations, Christopher said.
He said the message of the ceremony was that peace could be achieved and  the life of people improved through negotiations. He congratulated Bosnian  premier Haris Silajdzic, the Bosnian Croat leader Kresimir Zupac and the  Croatian foreign minister.
Originally, a formal signing ceremony had been expected in Geneva Saturday  for the federation agreement.
But an accord upon it reached in Vienna earlier in the week provides the  federation with 58 percent of Bosnia-Hercegovina territory.
This stands in contrast with a European peace plan for the former Yugoslav  republic endorsed late Friday in Geneva by the US and Russia which gives the  federation only 51 percent.
The parties in the federation have said they would like the Bosnian Serbs  to join in too, but they have shown no interest so far. In its present form it  lays the framework for relations between the Bosnian Moslem and Croat  populations in Bosnia-Hercegovina and Croatia.
