A previously unclassified species of dolphin  living in the Pearl River Delta faces possible extinction as a huge  construction project endangers its habitat, marine biologists and  conservationists said Saturday.
Work on Hong Kong's new 20.3-billion-dollar airport at Chek Lap Kok is  putting the group of estuarine dolphins at risk of extinction even before  scientists can study and identify them, said Lindsay Porter, a marine  biologist studying the mammals.
Porter and conservationists here believe the animals are related to the  Chinese white dolphin, which shares similarities with the Indo-Pacific  hump-backed dolphin, present from South Africa to India across Southeast Asia  and down to Australia.
"It's logical to assume that they're at least a sub-species because they  look so different," said Porter, "but how genetically far apart they are is  the question."
Genetic fingerprinting based on skin samples taken from dead dolphins,  which have washed up on the shore near the airport site, is the study's main  priority. A first set of samples sent to a laboratory in South Africa proved  inconclusive as to the Hong Kong dolphin's relationship to other dolphins, but  a second sample was being examined, Porter said.
World Wide Fund (WWF) for Nature senior conservation officer Joanna  Ruxton, who has been rallying efforts to study and protect the dolphins since  plans for the airport were announced, said: "It should become a much higher  priority on the conservation scale if it is a new sub-species."
But dolphin expert Stephen Leatherwood, who chairs the Whale and Dolphin  Specialists Group under the International Union for the Conservation of Nature  (IUCN), is hesitant to classify the Hong Kong dolphin.
"I don't want to rule out the possibility that it is a new sub-species or  species," Leatherwood said, but "in comparing photographs of these dolphins  with hump-backed dolphins in Malaysia and Thailand, there's not a lot of  difference.
"The conservative view is that it would be a regional variant."
Twenty-two of the stark pink to mottled grey dolphins were seen during a  first attempt last week by Porter and spotters aboard four survey boats to  count the animals along the northern and western coasts of Lantau Island, near  the marine boundary with China.
"We think there are roughly 40, but that's just for Hong Kong waters," she  said, adding that local fishermen had sighted the dolphins in Chinese waters  as far away as the Portuguese enclave of Macau.
Ruxton is worried that ongoing dredging, reclamation, underwater blasting  and sewage works could decimate the animals before the study is completed.
"It was quite obvious the new airport was going to destroy their habitat,"  she said. "I don't see why Hong Kong should lose its dolphin population."
Leatherwood believes it could already be too late, adding that other  factors such as the depletion of fish stocks around Hong Kong had also  contributed to limiting the number of dolphins.
