Mozambique on Wednesday opens a national seminar to  debate policy on one of the most explosive issues to face its first post-war  government, the land issue.
The seminar will discuss recent studies on land access and ownership which  generally recommend that Mozambique urgently needs a new land law if it is to  avoid renewed conflict, over land.
Greg Myers, a US researcher from the University of Wisconsin Land Tenure  Centre, now working with Mozambique's Ministry of Agriculture, said: "The  formal system of access to land and its laws do not reflect the political,  social or economic reality of rural Mozambique", and as such could result in  violent conflict.
Without urgent changes to the land tenure system, researchers argue, the  post-war return of commercial farmers and arrival of new investors, could  shock rudely with the rights and survival needs of the nation's vast majority  rural poor, as they compete for the same land.
In one study for debate at this the three-day seminar, Myers recommends  all land concessions should be suspended until after October elections,  followed by public debate and a new law on land ownership.
Economists in Maputo widely expect that the next government will quickly  move to privatise land, all officially state-owned, and to legalise the  existing subterfuge market in land.
Debate at the seminar is also likely to throw up hot potatoes, such as  land concessions of dubious wisdom or legality already made by some members of  government.
The most glaring example is the apparent concession of 20 million hectares  (almost 50 million acres) of land, or a quarter of national territory, to the  'Heaven on Earth Development Company (MAHEDCO)' of Indian spiritualist guru,  Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, which allegedly aims to create a "paradise on earth" in  Mozambique according to Yogi's philosophy of transcendental medidation.
According to the current issue of Maputo's Savana weekly, Finance Minister  Eneas Comiche signed the accord spelling out this concession in July 1993.
A source from Mozambique's investment promotion office (CPI) said: "The  project is currently being reviewed", under the general orientation that  MAHEDCO should not exploit the land itself but merely assist existing  producers.
Comiche is this month in Portugal looking for new investors to Mozambique.
