Prince Charles is to start a historic three-day  visit to the old imperial Russian capital Saint Petersburg Monday, the first  royal British appearance there in a century.
He is going for practical reasons -- the heir to the British throne is  leading a delegation of his Business Leaders' Forum, launched 10 years ago to  support private entreprise, which is providing assistance to the city.
But the visit also has great symbolic importance, as Prince Charles will  visit the tombs of the Romanov imperial family, who were related by blood to  the British royal family.
In a message before his departure, Prince Charles said the "political and  social map of Europe and the former Soviet Union has changed dramatically  (and) that transformation is continuing at a pace few could have foreseen."
"All of us have an immense interest in making sure that new-found freedom  and market economies are able to grow on a sound and sustainable basis," he  said.
All the Romanov tsars are buried in Saint Petersburg except for the last,  Nicholas II, who was murdered along with his family by the Bolsheviks in  Yekaterinburg in 1918.
The remains of the tsar, his wife and three daughters were discovered  three years ago in a forest near the town and formally identified in London  last July, but the Russian government has not yet decided where to bury them.
Nicholas II was the cousin of King George V, the grandfather of the  Prince's mother Queen Elizabeth II. His wife Alexandra was the sister of the  grandmother of the Duke of Edinburgh, Queen Elizabeth's husband Prince Philip.
Their marriage in 1894 was the occasion for the last British royal visit  to the city, then capital of the Russian empire.
British royalty conducted an unofficial boycott of Russia after the  Romanov assassination, broken only in 1973 when Prince Philip went to Moscow  as president of the International Equestrian Federation.
He was followed by his youngest son Prince Edward and his daughter,  Princess Anne, in 1990.
After Prince Charles, Queen Elizabeth herself is due to visit Russia  before the end of the year after being invited by Russian President Boris  Yeltsin.
The Prince has been preceded by experts from his Business Leaders' Forum,  who are advising Saint Petersburg on ways to develop tourism and preserve its  cultural heritage.
The Forum is also financing the first-ever publication of the complete  notebooks of the Russian writer Alexander Pushkin. During his visit the Prince  of Wales is to sign a final agreement to publish 800 copies of the notebooks  in eight volumes in a 750,000-dollar project.
The Prince is also due to pay tribute to the many victims of World War II  at the city's vast cemetery and visit a hospital which the Forum has helped to  modernise.
