The secession of southern from  northern Yemen threatens to deepen Arab divisions by forcing Arab countries to  take sides in the civil war, diplomats in the Gulf said Sunday.
"They will have to back one side or the other ... and this will be a new  bone of contention in the Arab world," according to one diplomat who requested  anonymity.
President Ali Abdallah Saleh's northern government has hinted it would cut  ties with any state recognising the Yemeni Democratic Republic proclaimed on  Saturday by his southern rival Ali Salem al-Baid.
Such recognition would amount to "unacceptable interference in Yemen's  internal affairs," Saleh's government said.
Saleh describes the war raging since May 5 as a "rebellion" and wants to  save Yemen -- forged exactly four years ago on Sunday when the tribal north  and Marxist south agreed to form one nation.
No country has so far recognised the breakaway state, but Arab countries  cannot ignore for much longer the thorny question of which side to support, as  reconciliation seems impossible, a diplomat said.
He said Gulf countries like Saudi Arabia and Kuwait might be tempted to  recognise the southern state to punish Saleh, whom they accuse of having  backed Iraq after its August 1990 invasion of Kuwait.
The Palestine Liberation Organization, Jordan and Sudan were also accused  of supporting Iraq, dividing the 22-member Arab League.
After the liberation of Kuwait in February 1991, Saleh tried without  success to break the economic and political isolation imposed on him by his  neighbors on the Arabian peninsula.
Baid, who was Yemen's vice president until war broke out, won the  confidence of the Gulf Arab countries by disassociating himself from Saleh's  pro-Iraqi stance.
His supporters have branded Saleh as a "little Saddam," in reference to  Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.
Baid has nurtured relations with Arab leaders and "could not have  proclaimed the YDR without consulting first with some of them," a diplomat  said.
His quest for recognition is moreover strenghtened by the fact that Saleh  has turned a deaf ear to the repeated Arab appeals for a ceasefire.
But the proclamation of the YDR remains difficult to accept in principle  by Arab countries, especially those committed to Arab unity.
Libya's leader Moamer Kadhafi on Saturday decided not to take part in  festivities Saturday for the Moslem feast of Al-Adha "in protest and mourning"  at the south's decision.
Jordan on Sunday backed the unity of Yemen but steered clear of condemning  the southerners for declaring an independent state.
Newspapers in the Arab countries of the Gulf likewise backed Yemen's  unity, but hinted at the same time to the right of the southerner's to break  away if peace and unity don't match.
"The North and the South will have to live alongside each other, whether  -- as hoped for -- as one country, or two. So the time is now for Saleh and  Baid to cease their fighting, agree a truce, sit down and once again talk  peace,"  the United Arab Emirate's Gulf News said.
