Rival Yemeni troops battled Friday for control of a  key town north of Aden, as an Arab League team issued an urgent appeal for a  ceasefire in the week-old civil war.
Northern troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh and southern forces  backing Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid were locked in a grim struggle for Al  Daleh, which lies near the former border between the old North and South Yemen.
The Sanaa authorities announced Thursday said the town had fallen, and a  military spokesman said here Friday that "pockets of resistance" were being  mopped up.
Northern reinforcements had been dispatched to Al-Daleh, which lies 90  kilometres (50 miles) north of Aden on a key road to a southern air base.
But military sources in Aden said southern troops had launched a  counter-offensive and recaptured some positions around Daleh.
There was also another battle underway in the Kharaz region, 120  kilometres (75 miles) west of Aden.
The defence ministry in Sanaa said northern forces were advancing and had  inflicted heavy losses on a rival armoured brigade.
But as the rival communiques continued to fly, southern commander Colonel  Ali Qassem Taleb said that the northern offensive through Kharaz had been  beaten back and the region was controlled by Baid's men.
And as the fighting raged on, an Arab League mission was due to hold  urgent talks with Saleh.
Mohammed Bayraqdar, the league's military affairs chief, urged Yemen's  leaders to "immediately halt" the fighting and open a dialogue, which they  have so far refused to do.
He was to give the president a message to that effect from the League  secretary-general, Esmat Abdel Meguid.
Saleh and his northern leadership decided to oust Baid as vice president  last week and sacked several southern ministers, branding them "secessionists"  who should be put on trial.
Baid's side in the meantime has demanded the withdrawal of northern forces  from the south.
Saudi Arabia's King Fahd has spoken by telephone with both Saleh and Baid,  and Gulf states have issued appeals for an end to the fighting, which has  shattered the fragile unity of Yemen, an impoverished country on the southern  tip of the Arabian peninsula.
As foreigners continued to flee the fighting, two air force C-130 troop  transports left the Philippines for Saudi Arabia on Friday to evacuate up to  700 Filipinos.
Another 580 Indians have been evacuated in the past two days from the  7,000- strong community in Yemen.
Evacuees airlifted from Sanaa by the British Royal Air Force told of their  experiences during a stopover in Larnaca, Cyprus.
A Hungarian neurosurgeon who asked not to be named said "medical supplies  are extremely low" at the main hospital in Sanaa, where he had been working.
He said the operating theatres in the 500-bed hospital were barely  functioning and virtually all the hospital's foreign staff -- mostly  Bulgarians and Indians -- had left.
About 10 Jordanian doctors arrived at the hospital a few days ago.
The surgeon said some 15 Somali refugees caught in the crossfire were  admitted with serious bullet wounds, and "at least two of them died later."
The hospital was hit by electricity cuts and there was virtually no  maintenance, he said.
One of the Hercules pilots, Flight Lieutenant Nick Young, said  communications at Sanaa airport were "excellent" and praised the help offered  by the Yemeni authorities.
He said he saw no damage to the airport, despite reported bombing raids by  southern jets when the conflict erupted last week.
Oil engineers who were working for the US company Yemen Hunt Oil in the  Marib field east of Sanaa said about 200 oil workers had stayed behind to keep  operations at the field running. It produces up to 60,000 barrels of oil per  day.
More than 4,000 foreigners have now fled the country since fighting  erupted.
