The United Nations is negotiating with an armed  Somali gang to secure the release of a wounded Nepalese peacekeeper abducted  during an ambush in which five Nepalese troops were killed, a UN spokesman  said Wednesday.
The soldier was kidnapped from his bed in Mogadishu's shell-scarred,  squalid Digfer hospital, attacked by the UN last year because it was allegedly  a base for the militia of warlord Mohamed Farah Aidid, spokesman George  Bennett said.
The Nepalese was the first UN soldier to be taken to Digfer rather than to  a UN field hospital.
Bennett said Somalis had taken him there after the firefight Monday.  Hospital officials contacted the International Committee of the Red Cross who  sent field workers to see him, but he was abducted before they arrived minutes  later.
Red Cross officials visited him in captivity Monday evening. "His wounds  are not life-threatening," Bennett said by telephone from Mogadishu.
Asked whether a ransom had been demanded, Bennett said: "We are not giving  any details. We are in contact with the abductors and we're doing all we can  to effect his release, but things are at a delicate stage."
Bennett said the exact circumstances of what was apparently an attack om a  routine UN patrol outside the UN-controlled airport were still being  investigated.
He said it was unsure whether the Nepalese were fired on because they had  tried to stop inter-clan fighting between members of Aidid's Habr Gedir clan  and their rivals the Hawadle.
The Hawadle were driven from their villas surrounding the airport during  10 days of fighting in late April and early May, UN sources said.
Bennett said the Somali attackers had apparently stolen the Nepalese  soldiers' vehicle after the firefight and had thrown the wounded man into the  street with the bodies of two of his comrades, where he was found and taken to  hospital by Somalis.
A Nigerian soldier and a US airman taken hostage by General Aidid's militia  were freed last year after negotiations that eventually led to the  cancellation of a UN warrant for Aidid's arrest for allegedly masterminding  the killings of foreign peacekeepers.
Several foreigners have since been abducted in Somalia, including the  Sudanese ambassador, a UN staffer and two employees of a catering firm.
All have been released after a few days or weeks.
Several UN officials speaking on condition of anonymity have told AFP that  the UN was believed to have paid ransoms, but the amounts were unknown.
In another development, Bennett said that it was unsure whether a peace  conference of 15 Somali factions would go ahead as planned at the end of the  month.
The meeting, already postponed three times, was to be held in Nairobi. But  Bennett said the United Nations was "waiting for the Somalis to decide." He  said they might hold the talks in Mogadishu instead.
