Added Bruce: "To be associated with names like Danny Blanchflower, Frank  McLintock and Alan Hansen who led their teams to the double is quite  incredible.
"I keep having to pinch myself to believe it. Never in my wildest dreams  did I imagine something like this would happen to me.
"If someone had told me ten years ago that I would lead a side to the  double, I would have thought they were joking."
Bruce cut into his celebrations to sympathise with Chelsea. "We were a bit  flattered by the scoreline," he admitted. "But once we got our noses in front,  they had to come at us. We have the skill up front to expose situations like  that."
Midfielder Paul Ince said: "We didn't play all that well and still won  4-0. Chelsea packed men behind the ball and you have to give them a bit of  credit. They hit the bar early on and if that shot had gone in, it might have  been a different story."
Chelsea striker Gavin Peacock twice hit winning goals in Premiership games  against United this season and saw his chance of a "hat-trick" disappear when  his 25th-minute lob rebounded from the United crossbar.
Said Peacock: "For the first 50 minutes we played very well. If my shot  had gone in instead of hitting the bar, I believe we would have won the game.  We were riding out the pressure through the second half until the penalty.  After that it was all very disappointing.
"But United have deservedly been acclaimed as the best team in the country  and you have to give them credit.
"Yet we held our own against them for a long time. A four-goal margin  flattered them but when we fell two goals behind, we had to chase it. But at  least we have the consolation of a place in Europe next season. We have a  young team and great support and I believe Chelsea will win something soon."
Danish international goalkeeper Peter Schmeichel missed United's Coca-Cola  Cup Final defeat through suspension and was doubtful until shaking off a  ligament injury.
He said: "I used to watch the FA Cup Final on television back home in  Denmark every year. To be part of it in a team that has won the English double  is unbelievable and incredible."
