Israel state radio stirred up another storm on  Sunday broadcasting a speech in which PLO chairman Yasser Arafat implies the  autonomy agreement is a ruse to capture Jerusalem.
The comments came during an address Arafat gave in a Johannesburg mosque  on May 10 when he also called for a holy war to liberate Jerusalem.
"This agreement, I do not consider it more than the agreement which has  been signed between our prophet Mohammad and Koraish," Arafat says in English  on the tape, a copy of which was obtained by AFP.
"The agreement was very low class," he said.
Arafat was referring to a non-aggression pact Mohammad struck with the  Koraish tribe which controlled Mecca in 628, said History of Islam Professor  Moshe Sharon of Jerusalem's Hebrew University.
Mohammad reneged on the deal two years later, wiped out the Koraishites  and captured the holy city, Sharon said.
The PLO leader used the Arabic name for the pact, "solh al-hodaibiya",  which has entered Islamic history as a tactical ceasefire.
"It's an Islamic legal precedent regarding any agreement between the  Islamic world and infidels. An agreement can be made with the enemy and then  broken as soon as possible."
A furore followed in Israel last week after the radio aired the jihad or  holy war appeal, which was not couched in the language of Islamic history.
The radio did not explain why it had not broadcast all the tape together  last week.
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin warned that the call endangered the peace  process and branded Arafat's explanations as "evasive".
The PLO chief claimed a jihad could be waged for peace and suggested the  emotive word could be used in the context of "I will continue my jihad ... to  bring Christians, Moslems and Jews to pray together in Jerusalem."
He vowed to end terrorism and violence in an exchange of letters with  Rabin ahead of the September 13 signing of the Declaraton of Principles for  autonomy.
Arafat's explanations did not convince Jewish right-wing leaders who began  to make preparations for mass protests against Arafat's arrival in Jerusalem,  proclaimed by Israel as its eternal, undivided capital.
They have announced that a human chain of thousands and thousands of  people will be thrown around Jerusalem if Arafat tries to enter the city.
The PLO chairman intends to return to the autonomous enclave of Jericho in  the first half of June, according to his aides.
