Ernesto Zedillo, of the ruling Institutional  Revolutionary Party (PRI), came under fire from his two main rivals late  Thursday, in Mexico's first-ever televised debate of presidential candidates.
During 90 minutes, millions of Mexicans watched the three leading  contenders in the August 21 elections: Zedillo, Cuahtemoc Cardenas of the  leftist Revolutionary Democratic Party (PRD) and Diego Fernandez of the  conservative National Action Party (PAN).
The son of a former president and PRI dropout, Cardenas, 60, promised to  set up a constitutional assembly in 1997 if he is elected and called on  Fernandez to "fight together for democracy."
The possibility of the PRD and PAN joining forces, political analysts  said, would make Zedillo a loser and put the lid on the PRI's 65-year  stranglehold on the government.
Fernandez, a 53-year-old lawyer and member of Congress, did not respond to  Cardenas' proposal but joined him in calling for a "pluralist government" and  for an "end to the party of state (the PRI)."
After years of hearing only the soothing drone of official statements on  television, Mexicans could hardly believe their ears as the opposition  candidates tore into past and present government policy.
Cardenas and Fernandez called for an end to corruption in the police force  and the justice system, to current economic policy, to poverty gnawing at 40  million Mexicans, to the present constitution, to the urbanization of the  country, to unemployment and job insecurity, and to rising prices and violence.
Fernandez showed no mercy for Zedillo.
"You are here because of two tragedies: the March 23 assassination of Luis  Donaldo Colosio (Zedillo's predecessor as PRI candidate) and the 'finger,'"  the PAN candidate said referring to the age-old tradition of PRI presidents to  personally choose their successors.
"The first (tragedy) you had nothing to do with. The second, disqualifies  you from speaking of democracy," Fernandez told the former, little-known  education and programming minister.
Cardenas pounded the PRI by saying that the July 1988 presidential  elections -- that brought President Carlos Salinas to power -- were the most  "fraudulent and tainted" in the country's history, echoing the same criticism  made by the opposition and the international media six years ago.
A year after leaving the PRI in 1987, his attempts at party reform having  failed, Cardenas ran against Salinas on the National Democratic Front ticket  but was soundly defeated by a 51-30 percent margin.
Zedillo, 42, took a calmer approach telling viewers that "the first hurdle  we will have to overcome is extreme poverty," and promising a "real and  thorough reform of the justice system, even starting from scratch."
Admitting that the police and justice system were far from perfect, the  new PRI candidate called on Mexicans to "look to the future, not the past."
Zedillo reproached his rivals for attempting to exploit Colosio's murder  (in Tijuana), and reminded viewers that he rose from a modest background to  twice become government minister because "Mexico is a land of opportunity...in  Mexico effort has its reward."
