Some 30 wounded people were killed in their beds  Thursday when mortar shells slammed into Kigali's overcrowded main hospital,  the Red Cross said, in the latest tragedy in the battle for the Rwandan  capital.
Hospital officials said a shell landed directly on a tent packed with  patients, which was erected in a courtyard to cope with a massive influx of  people with machete and gunshot wounds, the survivors of six weeks of ethnic  carnage that has killed half a million people.
"All the wounded inside were killed," Phillippe Gaillard of the  International Committee of the Red Cross said by telephone from Kigali.
Another shell fell on offices and a third near the morgue. Heavy  gunbattles between rebels and government soldiers prevented Red Cross workers  from reaching the hospital, Gaillard said.
He added that he had telephoned UN officials so they could inform the  rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) "to avoid other mistakes in firing."
"I want to believe that it was a mistake, that it wasn't a deliberate  action," Gaillard said. The hospital is near a big army camp in central  Kigali, and the shells were believed to have been fired by the rebels.
"It's tragic," UN spokesman Abdul Kabia said. "I hope it was an accident  because I don't see the military advantage of hitting a hospital."
The United Nations was still trying to determine who was responsible, but  it was difficult since there was firing from all directions, he said.
Gaillard said more than 3,000 wounded people were crammed into the main  hospital, run by Rwandans with medicine and equipment provided by the Red  Cross, which last month set up a smaller field hospital in a girls' boarding  school.
Fierce fighting erupted overnight around Kigali airport and prevented a UN  relief plane from landing, Kabia said.
The rebel headquarters in the old parliament building was "heavily  shelled" Thursday and fire was being returned from other RPF positions in  Kigali, which had been relatively quiet for several days, he added.
Kabia also reported fighting in the northwestern town of Ruhengeri.
UN officials shuttled between rebel and army commanders Wednesday in their  latest attempt to win an agreement to make the airport a UN-controlled neutral  zone.
A spokesman for the RPF said the airport, vital to deliver food and  medicine desperately needed for millions of displaced people, was a target  because it was surrounded by government artillery and there was a big army  camp nearby.
Ghanaian UN soldiers are stationed at the airport and should soon be  reinforced after the Security Council voted Tuesday to boost the number of  peacekeepers in Rwanda to 5,500.
All but 400 of the 2,500 UN troops formerly in Rwanda were withdrawn last  month after the death of president Juvenal Habyarimana plunged the central  African country into a bloodbath.
Ten Belgian peacekeepers were murdered while trying in vain to protect the  prime minister from death squads that rampaged through Kigali.
RPF secretary-general Theogene Rudasingwa, currently in South Africa for  talks with the new black majority government, on Wednesday ruled out accepting  troops from France, Zaire, Tanzania or Uganda as part of the UN force.
In an interview with AFP, he warned that foreign intervention served  largely only to perpetuate the "status quo".
"To believe that forces -- I don't know from where they are coming -- are  coming to solve the problem and that we will sit back and relax is an argument  that our generation in Rwanda rejects," Rudasingwa said.
"It would be defeatist on our part. We must be in the heart of the battle  for democracy."
UN military commander Romeo Dallaire left Kigali on Thursday for Gitarama,  40 kilometres (25 miles) to the southwest, where the rump government has been  holed up since it fled last month.
The rebels are closing in on Gitarama in an apparent bid to drive the  government out.
They have cut the road between Gitarama and Kigali, which they have almost  surrounded, UN military sources said.
Gaillard said people were streaming from the Bugesera area south of the  capital towards the centre of the country, apparently fleeing advancing rebels  who were trudging through swamps to tighten the noose around the army.
Many of the 500,000 Rwandans slaughtered were members of the minority Tutsi  tribe that dominates the rebel movement, moderates from the majority Hutu  group and opposition supporters.
Most were the victims of extremist Hutu militias and death squads.
