Malawi's parliament on Monday passed a new  constitution the very day before multi-party presidential and general  elections set to end three decades of paternalistic rule by the veteran Kamuzu  Banda.
The interim constitution, hammered out by the rival political parties that  have emerged in the past two years, enshrines political pluralism and human  rights provisions, and substantially curtails presidential powers.
Justice Minister Lovemore Munlo presented the constitutional bill to 141  members of parliament from Banda's ruling Malawi Congress Party (MCP), who  passed it unanimously in their last vote after a brief debate.
On Tuesday, 3.8 million Malawians have been called to the polls, where  Banda faces stiff opposition from former close aide Bakili Muluzi, 51, who is  now the leader of the opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) and tipped to  win.
Munlo, who is also attorney-general, said the constitution was written and  adopted by the all-party national consultative council (NCC) formed during the  transition to democracy and approved by Banda's 22-member cabinet.
"The document is the final result of compromises in the NCC," Muno told  MPs in Zomba, the former colonial capital of the impoverished southern African  nation of 9.4 million people.
The constitution replaces the one of 1966, when Malawi became independent,  which enshrined one-party rule. The new text comes into effect from midnight  on Tuesday and may be amended in the 12 coming months.
Munlo said a period of between six to 12 months after the new government  takes power will be left for a national debate on the interim constitution,  before a final text is hammered out.
He said the new, pluralist parliament, which will have 177 members, will  appoint a committee of MPs to oversee the debate and receive public comment.
The text severely limits the powers of the president, in major contrast to  the supreme authority accorded to Banda in the old constitution, but was  criticised by some MPs. Foreign Minister Hetherwick Ntaba called it a  "political manifesto."
It provides for the establishment of a commission to protect and  investigate violations of human rights and a national compensation tribunal to  hear claims of alleged criminal and civil liability.
Banda, who officially turned 89 on Saturday but is believed to be well  into his nineties, is standing against three (eds: correct) other candidates,  in spite of brain surgery last year and a leg ailment during the campaign.
For reported health reasons, Banda was not there to see his MPs, who wore  little portraits of him in their buttonholes, hold their last session in front  of his empty, throne-like red leather chair.
Once declared "president-for-Life", he was forced last year to bow to the  introduction of multi-party politics after a referendum and pressure for  change initiated by outspoken opponent and trade unionist Chakufwa Chihana in  March 1992.
Only Muluzi's UDF and the MCP have put up candidates throughout the  country, followed by the Alliance for Democracy which is backing the  53-year-old Chihana in the presidential race, and which is standing in just  under three-quarters of all constituencies.
The fourth presidential candidate is Kamlepo Kalua, 36, of the Malawi  Democratic Party. A fifth candidate, Tim Mangwazu of the Malawi National  Democratic pulled out of the race to join a loose political alliance known as  the Common Electoral Group, which largely backs Muluzi.
