Cambodian co-premiers Prince Norodom Ranariddh  and Hun Sen said Wednesday they had agreed to holding peace talks with the  Khmer Rouge in Pyongyang without preconditions, in response to an appeal by  King Norodom Sihanouk.
The co-premiers had sent an official letter to the king "saying that we  are ready to go to Pyongyang without ceasefire, without preconditions," Prince  Ranariddh told journalists. "Let talks begin," he added.
Hun Sen said the talks, beginning on May 27, would be based on a peace  plan put forward by King Sihanouk, but added that the government had yet to  receive a reply from the Khmer Rouge regarding the proposal.
King Sihanouk has proposed that certain "acceptable" members of the Khmer  Rouge be given senior cabinet posts in the government in exchange for giving  up their zones, ceasing all guerrilla activities and merging their fighters  with the royal armed forces.
The co-premiers were seeing off King Sihanouk, who was leaving to Beijing  for medical treatment two weeks earlier than scheduled, citing his frustration  at the failure of Cambodia's premiers to accept his peace plan.
The king Tuesday called on Khmer Rouge nominal leader Khieu Samphan and  Hun Sen to bury the hatchet and proposed holding peace talks on May 27 at his  residence in North Korea.
But in an interview published Wednesday in the Cambodia Times, the king  had expressed pessimism at seeing the peace plan get off the ground, partly  because he said Hun Sen was strongly opposed to "any flexibility vis-a-vis the  Khmer Rouge."
The king told the paper that "the agenda to get a ceasefire, or at least   talks, can't be accomplished" and Cambodia faced a future of "more killing,  more fighting, more refugees."
"Unfortunately we will continue to face the continuation of war and there  will be continual misery of the people," he said.
King Sihanouk, in the interview, said that despite his pessimism, he would  still pursue peace for Cambodia. "I don't want to die before succeeding. I am  very resilient. I never give up," he said.
The king was also quoted as saying in the interview that his health  problems were serious.
"I look well but it is just appearance. And I have arterial sclerosis. This  is also very grave. I expect one day to have a major stroke, and I still have  cancer of the bone marrow," he said.
