Australia's embattled opposition leader John Hewson  threw down the gauntlet to his party critics Friday, announcing a ballot for  his own job -- for which he said he expects to be the favourite.
Ending days of frenzied speculation about his future, he told a media  conference here he had called a special party meeting for 2:30 p.m. (0430 GMT)  Monday, and had declared all leadership positions vacant.
"I think I will win quite well," said the former economics professor who  as leader of the Liberal Party also heads the conservative coalition  opposition in which the rural-based National Party is junior partner.
"I will be returned to the leadership of the Liberal Party with a renewed  mandate -- and then I will make some changes," he added.
His announcement follows an accusation by Hewson Thursday that elements of  the Liberal party -- and the media -- were trying to destabilise him.
In a clear reference to Hewson's leadership, former Liberal prime minister  Malcolm Fraser said Tuesday that a few people needed "to be weeded out" to  revive party fortunes.
"The Liberal Party is at the moment further away from winning elections  than it was in 1945 when Robert Menzies founded the party," Fraser said.
Hewson, 47, vowed the following day that he was "bloody well never going  to give up" the leadership.
Elected Liberal leader in 1990, Hewson was re-elected after leading the  coalition to disastrous defeat in a so-called unlosable election in March 1993  while Australia was still mired in the impact of its worst recession for 60  years.
He told reporters Friday it was clear the speculation surrounding the  leadership of the party had gained such momentum that the issue needed to be  resolved as soon as possible.
Analysts say that during the past week or two gloomy poll-ratings and  obvious dissatisfaction with his performance among party chieftains have  eroded support which has never been strong since the March 1993 election.
Hewson said he and a great majority of his colleagues "were fed up to the  back teeth by the activities of a few in the coalition."
"I have always been absolutely confident that I have the support of the  parliamentary party and I remain so," he said.
Hewson said that in his four years as parliamentary leader of the Liberal  Party he had worked long and hard for the Liberal cause.
"I have made mistakes but I have learned from them and taken comfort from  the fact that people who make no mistakes never try to achieve anything," he  said.
