Rwandan rebel and army leaders on Monday held talks  in the embattled capital Kigali aimed at ending the violence that has claimed  up to 500,000 lives, while UN troops evacuated hundreds of civilians.
The UN-mediated truce talks began amid heavy fighting which initially  prevented UN troops from evacuating people trapped behind the lines as  hostages to ethnic conflict.
But as the talks went on, the United Nations was able to take hundreds of  people, mostly Hutus, from the Amahoro stadium in territory held by the mainly  Tutsi rebels to behind government lines.
UN lorries also evacuated hundreds of others, mostly Tutsis, from the  Milles Collines hotel in a Hutu-held part of the city, to behind the lines of  the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF).
The RPF gave UN personnel assurances that it would not fire on convoys  even if they were escorted by a few government troops, a UN official said.
Earlier, gunfire erupted outside the UN headquarters at the Amahoro hotel  minutes before army Brigadier-General Marcel Gatsinzi (eds: correct) arrived  in a white UN armoured personnel carrier.
His armoured vehicle broke down 300 metres (yards) from the hotel,  delaying the opening of the talks by 30 minutes as two other APCs were sent to  collect Gatsinzi, accompanied by four senior army officers.
Colonel Frank Mugambage, representing the RPF, arrived a few minutes later  and went into the talks, mediated by UN deputy force commander Brigadier Henry  Anyidoho of Ghana.
"It's a very tense situation here," said UN military spokesman Major  Jean-Guy Plante. "There's been heavy shelling and a lot of fighting."
Rebel spokesman Patrick Kayiranga said RPF guerrillas had surrounded one  of the last government strongholds in Kigali.
The RPF forces were firing on the paramilitary police camp of Kacyiru with  mortar and small arms fire and the government forces inside were "running out  of ammunition," he said.
He added that the RPF would not agree to the signature of any truce pact by  army representative Gatsinzi, because in the eyes of the rebels he was only a  colonel and not a brigadier-general.
Gatsinzi had been promoted by a government the RPF refuses to recognise,  Kayiranga said, referring to the self-proclaimed interim administration formed  after president Juvenal Habyarimana was killed in a suspected rocket attack on  his plane on April 6.
Habyarimana's death plunged Rwanda into an orgy of bloodletting that has  claimed up to 500,000 lives, with the presidential guard and Hutu extremist  militias accused of exterminating Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
Kayiranga said the RPF wants:
- the army to denounce the government on Rwandan radio,
- an end to the massacres,
- the closure of the Hutu extremist Milles Collines radio station, which  has incited the slaughter in its broadcasts,
- and the arrest by the regular army of the presidential guard and Hutu  militias.
UN officials privately expressed pessimism about prospects of any truce  coming out of the talks.
The heaviest fighting was earlier reported at the notorious Kadhafi Corner  south of the city on the road to Gitarama, where the government sought refuge  last month.
Rebels have advanced to within 10-kilometres (six miles) of Gitarama, and  have cut a possible escape route for the government to the southern town of  Butare, UN military sources said.
