A US envoy has gone to Cambodia to discuss  military aid for Phnom Penh, a senior US statement department officials said  at an Asian Pacific security meeting here Wednesday.
Thomas Hubbard, deputy assistant secretary at the State Department, said a  US defence official had flown to Phnom Penh to discuss Cambodian appeals for  Western military aid to fight the Khmer Rouge.
Kent Wiedemann, a US deputy assistant secretary of defence, was to report  his findings to US State Secretary Warren Christopher on returning to  Washington this week, Hubbard said.
Hubbard headed a US delegation to the Association of Southeast Asian  Nations regional forum on security issues. He told AFP he met Thai foreign  ministry staff Tuesday to discuss the issue.
But he said "there were no decisions, no final agreements." The Thais  indicated they had an open mind on what kind of assistance would be  "acceptable," he said.
Thailand has publicly called on the United States and other western  countries, including France and Australia, not to supply military aid to Phnom  Penh.
Cambodian King Norodom Sihanouk appealed for foreign weapons supplies to  help end the long-standing battle between government forces and Khmer Rouge  guerrillas.
Hubbard said the United States had not yet decided that lethal aid would  solve any of Cambodia's problems, but "We think (the king's) appeal should be  taken seriously."
A final decision would depend on reports and further consultations, he  said.
"Certainly it seems the Cambodian military could use some help," he said,  but "we have not decided how we might help."
Other potential avenues for aid included training for government troops or  military leaders, he said.
The United States has already used of the regional security conference for  examining the Cambodian situation.
Tuesday, defence official Wiedemann toured the Thai-Cambodian border "to  witness for myself the effects of recent fighting in Cambodia on this side of  the border," he said.
