The Japan-US agreement to resume trade talks is a  boon to the minority government of Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata but he still  faces some daunting economic decisions.
"The Hata government, burdened with the duty of improving relations with  the United States, has headed off a critical situation for the time being,"  the influential Asahi newspaper commented.
The economic daily Nihon Keizai said the revival of trade talks on Tuesday  had been a "serious issue deciding the destiny of the government."
But with a no-confidence vote threatened by the opposition, his weak  leadership may make it difficult to force through tax reforms and deregulation  to stimulate demand and open up markets to appease Washington, Asahi said.
Hata's first problem is to keep the momentum of Tuesday's accord growing.  But Japanese analysts are still not clear about US intentions.
Though beset by a weaker dollar and lower bond and stock prices,  Washington broke the three-month trade deadlock by easing demands for concrete  means of measuring the success of foreign products in penetrating the Japanese  market.
US negotiators were understood to be requiring that Japan set "numerical  targets" for market access to slash its huge trade surplus with the United  States.
Washington instead insisted on introducing "objective criteria" to measure  the opening of Japanese markets to foreign competition.
This provoked fears in some quarters that the United States would use  numbers as specific goals after all.
But Japanese Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa ruled out the possibility of  "objective criteria" becoming "numerical targets." "I understand that they  would not bind us in the future," he told the House of Representatives budget  committee Wednesday.
He said such criteria would be something like the number of foreign  corporations or branch offices operating in Japan and the scope of their  business through Japanese dealerships.
"There still remains the possibility of the US side demanding the  establishment of objective criteria similar to numerical targets," Asahi said.
It quoted a senior official at the international trade and industry  ministry as saying: "We cannot be sure about their true intentions until we  start concrete negotiations."
Hata told reporters that the accord meant "The United States must for its  part make efforts and Japan do the same."
Last July, the two reached a 'framework' agreement to hold talks on ways  of giving greater foreign access to Japanese markets. They made cars and auto  parts, insurance and government procurement priority sectors.
But the then Japanese prime minister Morihiro Hosokawa told President Bill  Clinton in February that Japan could not accept numerical targets. He said  this would undermine free trade.
Japan's export-oriented industries, including carmakers and electric  companies, have been hard hit by the yen's sharp appreciation which followed  the collapse of those talks.
And in March, Clinton revived the controversial Super 301 clause that  allows the United States to impose unilateral sanctions against nations it  considers to be unfair trading partners.
Now, US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor has asked Japan to add glass,  lumber and intellectual property to the list of items subject to framework  talks.
Nihon Keizai said the most difficult task would be adjusting  "macroeconomic factors" such as the yen-dollar exchange rate and tax cuts --  which account for some 70 percent of Japan's 60 billion dollar trade surplus  with the United States.
"It is necessary for the United States to make efforts not only to reduce  financial deficits but also to increase savings," it said.
