Former communists won an absolute majority Sunday  in run-off elections in Hungary after four years of conservative rule, the  national election centre said.
With more than 99 percent of the votes counted, the former communists,  restyled as the Hungarian Socialist Party, have won at least 204 seats in the  386-member legislature, the centre said. An absolute majority is 194 seats. In  the outgoing legislature the party had just 33 seats.
The liberal Alliance of Free Democrats, the main opposition party in the  outgoing parliament and a probable coalition partner of the socialists, is  assured of at least 68 seats, it added.
The conservative Democratic Forum, the main party in the ruling coalition,  took a beating, plummeting to 36 seats from 165.
Hungary thus appears set to join Poland in shifting back to the left in an  apparent backlash against the pain of market-oriented economic reform after  decades of communism. Former communists dominated general elections in Poland  in September of last year.
The Hungarian Socialist Party is led by Gyula Horn, the foreign minister  in the communist regime that fell in 1989.
It was the country's second democratic election since the fall of  communism. The first was held in March and April 1990.
But political analysts have predicted Hungary's next government would  likely be a coalition between the former communists and the Alliance of Free  Democrats in order to make up the two-thirds majority needed to pass major  legislation and form a stable government.
During the election campaign Horn indicated that he was prepared to form a  ruling coalition with "any democratic force which has not compromised itself  in government over the last four years."
Observers said such comments could allow for an even broader coalition,  including another liberal party, the Federation of Young Democrats.
The Democratic Forum, whose leader and premier Jozsef Antall died last  December, had already resigned itself to being in opposition against the next  administration.
One of the Democratic Forum's two coalition partners, the Small  Independent Proprietors Party, won 26 seats on Sunday. The other partner, the  Christian Democrats, won 22.
The Federation of Young Democrats won at least 21 seats, the election  center said.
The socialists and the Alliance of Free Democrats, headed by 43-year-old  economist Gabor Kuncze, are very close on several foreign policy areas, in  particular on their enthusiasm for Hungarian membership of the European Union  and closer links with NATO.
Both parties have cautioned, however, that it would take them around two  years to bring about a marked improvement in Hungarians' standard of living.
Both Horn and Kuncze have indicated willingness to be appointed prime  minister in a coalition government.
The first round of the election was held on May 8 and dominated by the  former communists.
