Berti Vogts is hoping for one last heave from the  old guard as champions Germany bid for a fourth world title.
Rudi Voller's last minute decision to come out of international retirement  means nine of the team that played in the final victory over Argentina in Rome  in 1990 are in Vogts' squad.
Selection continuity has always underpinned Germany's remarkable  consistency -- they have missed only one of the last five World Cup finals --  but the current squad does have a jaded look.
"You need experienced players during a World Cup," Vogts said. But  physical condition also plays a key role in the gruelling month long  competition and past experience is that winning teams are based on players at  the peak of their careers in their mid to late twenties.
Lothar Matthaus, the player of the tournament in Italy, is 33 and no  longer a driving midfield force. Vogts is likely to deploy him at sweeper, the  role he has adopted with Bayern Munich, with Andreas Moller of Juventus taking  over as midfield general.
Voller is 34 and defenders Guido Buchwald and Andreas Brehme, the scorer  of the winning penalty against Argentina, are also both 33. Like Voller,  Brehme had quit the national side only to be tempted back last November after  an 18 month absence.
Not having to qualify as champions has also denied the Germans real  competitive preparation, a factor that Franz Beckenbauer believes hampers  Germany's chances this time around.
"Qualifying games are the best way of building a team," Beckenbauer,  winning captain in 1974 and coach in 1990, said. "Without qualifying matches,  it's extremely difficult."
Germany's weakness was demonstrated when they were outclassed by a  half-strength Argentina in the United States at Christmas. They were, however,  impressive in beating Italy 2-1 in March.
That match cured a major headache for Vogts as Jurgen Klinsmann returned  to his sharpest best with two goals in three minute.
The 29-year-old Monaco forward is likely to partner Borussia Dortmund's  Karl-Heinz Riedle up front. As well as Voller, Vogts can also call on Stefan  Kuntz, a 31-year-old who has consistently been among the Bundesliga's top  scorers but only made his international debut at the end of last year.
