Hungarian voters on Sunday will determine if  erstwhile reform communists in the Socialist Party can maintain a strong first  round lead and secure an absolute majority in parliament.
Following an initial poll three weeks ago, 259 of the 386 seats in  parliament remain to be filled in Sunday's vote, in which eight million  Hungarians are eligible to cast ballots in the country's second democratic  election since the fall of communism in 1989.
The outcome in 174 of the 259 seats will be decided by simple majority in  individual constituencies, provided voter participation is at least 25 percent.
The remaining 85 slots will be assigned according to a proportional  distribution scheme.
In the first round May 8 the Socialist Party (MSZP) under former foreign  minister Gyula Horn, 61, captured 57 seats and is leading in 158  constituencies and in second place in 15 others.
The liberal Alliance of Free Democrats (SZDSZ), with whom the socialists  could form a coalition in the future government, won 28 seats in the first  round and is in first place in 12 consituencies and in second place in 125.
The Democratic Forum (MDF), the main component in the outgoing  conservative administration, won but a single seat on May 8 and is leading in  only one constituency.
Only three other parties managed to pass the threshold of five percent to  hold seats so far in the new parliament.
The polling institute Szonda has predicted that the socialists will end up  controlling between 175 and 208 seats and the Alliance of Free Democrats  between 67 and 86. The absolute majority is 194.
But what remains to be seen is if voters, after having so decisively  crushed the ruling conservative coalition in the first round, have since  become anxious over the scope of the Socialist Party's success.
The MDF is hoping that Hungarians will support the government in the  second round, fearing a return of the communists.
The Free Democrats have said they are prepared to take part in a coalition  with the socialists but fear that if the MSZP secures an absolute majority,  they will be unable to make their voice heard in any future power-sharing  arrangement.
However, Hungarian legislation must be adopoted a by a two-thirds  majority, which the socialists alone cannot hope to achieve.
Horn, the MSZP leader, has expressed interest in becoming prime minister  if invited. He suffered a car accident before the first round and still  appears in public with a neck brace.
Another possible prime minister is MSZP economic spokesman and former  finance minister Laszlo Bekesi.
But Gabor Kuncze, a 43-year-old economist and head of the Free Democrats,  has also said he would be interested in the prime minister's job.
The socialists and the Free Democrats agree on foreign policy, calling for  a normalization in relations with neighboring countries with large Hungarian  minorities, membership in the European Union and closer ties with the North  Atlantic Treaty Organisation.
On economic issues, they both aim to temper the government's privatisation  policies and return to a balanced budget.
