Patrick Rafter reached the last 16 of a grand slam  tournament for the first time after coming through an explosive third round  clash with Austria's Thomas Muster at the French Open on Friday.
In one clash, the notoriously volatile Austrian appeared to spit at his  opponent and afterwards he admitted to rubbing the balls on the clay surface  in an attempt to slow them down.
Despite all that, Rafter played the best match of his career on clay to  overcome the 11th seed 6-4, 5-7, 6-3, 6-3 on the Court No. 1 at Roland Garros.
"I played a good match against Roux in the second round but this was even  better," he said. "It has got to be my best win on this surface."
Playing powerful, attacking tennis Rafter always dominated the Austrian,  who beat Andre Agassi in the last round and is considered one of the world's  best clay courters.
If he had taken one of the two set points he had in the second set, Rafter  could easily have wrapped it up in straight sets.
But at 4-5 and 15-40, Muster uncharacteristically charged the net to save  both points. He then won ten of the next 11 points to clinch the set.
But with Muster's own serve failing to hurt him and with the risks he took  on his returns paying off, Rafter soon reasserted his control of the match  with a break in the second game of the third.
A majestic forehand down the line off a powerful cross court backhand from  Muster brought the crucial break in the fifth game of the fourth set.
Rafter's pace over the ground, which enabled him to reach a Muster drop  many would not even have tried for, set up an overhead to earn him a second  match point in the ninth game of the fourth and he wrapped things up with a  slightly lucky backhand pass that caught the top of the net, forcing Muster to  volley wide.
The spitting incident came at 2-2 in the second and advantage to Rafter.  The Australian, frustrated with Muster's frequent calls to the umpire to come  and check the mark of the ball in disputed calls, fired down an ace to seal  the game.
He then hurdled the net and drew a circle with his raquet around the  clearly-in mark of the ball, directly mimicking the Austrian.
As Rafter returned to his chair, the Austrian appeared to spit at him,  although he insisted he had not aimed at his opponent. "I spat about a  thousand times today," Muster said.
The sight of Muster rubbing the balls on the ground, left Rafter bemused.
"I thought 'he's tampering with the balls,'. I had a good look at them but  I didn't bring it up with the umpire because I didn't want to get distracted."
Muster said: "I did it to slow them down. We had a soft ball and it had to  be replaced. He used it five times in a row when all the other balls were  three games old. That's not very sporting either."
Despite some obscene outbursts on court, which were the equal of those  that cost Agassi a penalty point on Tuesday but went unpunished, Muster was  gracious about his opponent.
"He played his game very well and forced me to make good returns and I  didn't makes those today. It's very difficult because he puts a lot of  pressure on your serve by winning his own so easily."
Rafter is now set for a fourth round tie with defending champion Sergi  Bruguera or Haiti's Ronald Agenor.
am94
