President Bill Clinton announced Thursday he  was renewing China's most favored nation trading status for another year and  abandoning his policy of linking trade issues and human rights.
Clinton backed off his threat of a year ago to revoke MFN if China did not  significantly improve its human rights record. He acknowledged abuses  persisted but said it was not in Washington's interest to disrupt a 40 billion  dollar a year trade relationship.
"I have decided that the United States should renew most favored nation  trading status for China," Clinton said, allowing it to export goods to the  United States at the lowest possible tariffs.
"I am moving to delink human rights from most favored nation status. I  believe ... that we have reached the end of the usefulness of that policy."
The only sanction that Clinton imposed was a ban on imports of Chinese  guns and ammunition worth 200 million dollars a year -- less than one percent  of the 22 billion dollar Chinese trade surplus with the United States.
"Serious human rights abuses continue in China," the president told a  press conference, but "we are far more likely to have human rights advances  when it is not under the cloud of the question of the annual review of MFN."
"I believe we can do it by engaging the Chinese. We will have more  contacts, we will have more trade."
Clinton's language Thursday was in sharp contrast to his 1992 campaign  criticism of then-president George Bush's "coddling" of a repressive regime in  Beijing. It drew strong criticism from his own party's top man in congress,  Democratic Senator George Mitchell of Maine.
"The experience of recent years has been that each concession to the  Chinese Communist regime encourages its intransigence. I believe this will be  the unfortunate result of this decision," Mitchell said.
He said he would be introducing legislation in Congress calling for much  tougher action against China.
Clinton defended Thursday's decision, saying "our destiny demands that we  contine to play an active role in this region.
"I believe, in other words, that this is in the strategic best interests  of both China and the United States."
Human rights groups expressed outrage over Clinton's soft line, but  business leaders were overjoyed by the decision to end permanently the link  between human rights and trade.
Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers,  called Clinton's move "historic" and said it was "the best decision for the  American economy and jobs."
"Tying MFN status to human rights is like using a blunt instrument for  brain surgery," the US Chamber of Commerce said.
Clinton stressed that abandoning the MFN-human rights link did not mean he  was giving up in efforts to improve China's human rights record.
He announced a multi-pronged approach including the arms sanctions,  boosting broadcasts to China by Voice of America, increased actions through  the United Nations and efforts to persuade US businesses operating in China to  draw up a code of practice.
But the Chamber of Commerce rejected the need for a code of conduct,  saying "by their behavior US companies have demonstrated consistently that  they are part of the human rights solution, not the problem."
China had no immediate comment on Clinton's decision, but had warned  earlier Thursday that sanctions would be unwise.
Clinton was caught between a human rights lobby which felt China had  failed to meet the conditions and a powerful business lobby which argued that  revoking MFN would be an economic catastrophe.
A leak Thursday of news that aircraft maker Boeing, the world's largest  exporter, was negotiating a five billion dollar contract with China served as  a timely reminder of just what was at stake.
Over the past week, US officials have laid the ground for the fact that  Clinton was not going to withdraw MFN, announcing that China had basically  fulfilled the two mandatory conditions.
These were allowing emigration and an end to the export of goods made by  forced prison labor, although human rights groups maintained this week that  they had new evidence that such exports were continuing.
An extra boost to Clinton's case came Thursday when the State Department  announced that Beijing and Washington had agreed on a formula to resolve the  problem of US complaints that Voice of America radio broadcasts were jammed.
