Women's tennis officials are still refusing to  accept that allowing 14-year-olds to become full-time professionals is  fundamentally dangerous for their physical and mental health.
Ann Person Worcester, managing director of the Women's Tennis Council,  insisted on Tuesday that Jennifer Capriati, who abandoned the tour last year  and was arrested for possessing marijuana this month, was not a victim of the  system that allows girls to turn pro in the month of their 14th birthday.
"It's a lot to handle and a great deal depends on the ability of the  family to make decisions for the player. It is a very challenging balance,"  she said.
"But when you look at other players 99 percent of them have been able to  do it. Capriati's case is the exception not the rule."
Kathleen Ann Stroia, Health Services Director to the women's tour,  suggested that the globetrotting life of young players was not necessarily  worse in terms of their all-round development than a normal education with  their peers.
"In terms of growing up, it's like comparing oranges and apples," she said.
The Capriati case has given added impetus to the work of the medical and  psychological experts on the WTC's Age Eligibility Commission, belatedly set  up in March to make a decision on whether the age limit should be lifted.
But the reluctance of officials to admit the system is flawed may be  influenced by US anti-trust legislation, which might view an increased entry  age as restricting an individual's right to work.
Any legislation would come from the start of next year, by which time the  Swiss prodigy Martina Hingis, 14 in August, will be on the tour.
The Commission, which will meet at Wimbledon before making its  recommendations at the US Open, seems more likely to suggest a range of  initiatives to help parents cope better with having a teenager on tour.
That suggestion initially came from Tracy Austin, whose career was wrecked  by back injuries provoked by overplaying at a young age.
But measures such as organising meetings between parents or getting former  players to give guidance would only make a difference to the top fraction of  young players who make it to the circuit.
Any 14-year-old good enough to turn professional at that age has years of  often intense junior competition behind them. Regulation in that area is out  of the hands of the women's tour but their low entry age arguably increases  the pressure on parents to push their kids too hard at an early age.
Officials also accept they are powerless to restrict the influence of  agents, another factor pushing the likes of Capriati to do too much too soon.
"We keep trying but it is not easy," Worcester admitted.
"We will concentrate on going through the parents, who at least have the  best personal and not commercial interests of the player at heart."
