"We can substitute passion for inexperience, and, after all the stress  involved in qualifying, the players will be able to express themselves better  on the pitch," Panagoulias said.
Though internationally Greece have little pedigree, many of their players,  such as skipper Tasos Mitropoulos, have proved themselves continually in  domestic football.
AEK Athens midfielder Mitropoulos is the "old man" of the team at 36.
His passion and enthusiasm will be the driving force in whipping up the  team spirit necessary to compete with the world's best.
Although there was little spirit in a five-goal thrashing to England,  reduced to providing opposition for World Cup finalists, in a friendly this  week.
Vasilis Dimitriadis, 27, and Nikos Machlas, seven years younger, are  likely to spearhead the attack.
Machlas is already a national hero. The headed goal by the OFI Crete  player earned them a 1-0 win against Russia in Athens in the qualifiers in  front of 70,000 spectators.
Notable in the back division is Panathinaikos player Yiannis Kalitzakis,  known as the most powerful stopper in Greece. But the marshall of the back  line will probably be 32-year-old Stelios Manolas, who also skippers AEK  Athens.
Yugoslavia's ban from European zone group five because of the civil war  went in Greek's favour. But Mitropoulos believed they would have qualified  anyway as they won the group.
"All the time we heard remarks about Yugoslavia being missing from our  group, and that was the only reason we would qualify.
"But we came top of the group and have earned our right to be at the World  Cup."
Greece's previous finest hour came in the 1980 European championship  finals, when they held current world champions West Germany 0-0, and only lost  to Holland by a single goal.
Greek factfile
Manager: Alketas Panagoulias
Greek federation: Founded 1926, 4,050 clubs, 180,000 players
Colours: White shirts, blue shorts, white socks
Key players: Costas Antoniou, Tasos Mitropoulos, Nikos Machlas
World Cup: First appearance
How they qualified: Top of European zone group five ahead of Russia
