Ivanisevic's win came on a day when the stamina-sapping red clay surfaces  and a series of gruelling five-set matches took their toll.
Javier Frana pulled up in agony and had to drop out after two sets against  Berasategui with a stomach muscle injury.
Peru's Jaime Yzaga,beaten in straight-sets by Sweden's Magnus Larsson,  looked a pale shadow of the player who had put out 1989 champion Michael Chang  after a four-and-a-half hour classic in the previous round.
And Aaron Krickstein, who had sent Michael Stich packing before the first  weekend, failed to win a set against the German's 'unknown' compatriot Hendrik  Dreekmann.
Frana, 27, beaten in the first-round on both of his previous visits, had  reached the last-sixteen after edging past Australian Mark Woodforde after a  marathon five sets and 53 games.
But he had no answer to Berasategui's wristy groundstrokes and when he  called it a day he was trailing badly at 2-6, 0-6.
It was the second time at the Championships that the promising 20-year-old  Spaniard has not had to go the distance. In the first-round South African  Wayne Ferreira withdrew with gastric 'flu after just one round.
The 6ft 3in (1m92) Larsson, who had defeated ninth-seeded fellow-giant  Todd Martin in the third-round, quickly took control against the 5ft 7in  Peruvian whose touch tennis had so tormented Chang.
"I felt flat when I got on court," admitted the disappointed South  American after winning just seven games and few admirers among the  long-suffering fans in a dour two-hour encounter of unforced errors and  uninspired tennis.
Larsson's opponent for a place in the semi-final will be 19-year-old  Dreekman -- the latest player to emerge from the shadow of compatriots Stich,  Boris Becker and Marc Goellner since reaching the final at Sun City earlier  this year.
Playing on the new Stadium 'A' show-court, Dreekmann survived a nervous  start, mixed up his game with intelligent changes of pace and clever drop  shots, and beat Krickstein 6-4, 6-4, 6-4.
