Indian Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao hailed  before Congress Wednesday a "bold new era" in post-Cold War US-India relations  but did not embrace a US plan for capping nuclear weapons production.
Rao said he supported a global approach to controlling nuclear weapons  proliferation and disarmament but made no reference the US South Asia plan for  India and Pakistan, both of whom are capable of quickly assembling nuclear  bombs.
"The difficult and complex question of nuclear weapons proliferation can  be effectively addressed only when we consider their global reach, requiring  similar global solutions," Rao told legislators.
"An agreement to outlaw the use of nuclear weapons is necessary in the  short term ... while serious multilateral negotiations are launched for  nuclear disarmament, the objective being a nuclear-free world," he said.
His call for a global solution to nuclear nonproliferation would seem to  quiet critics at home who opposed the US-backed regional approach without  totally rebuffing the United States.
Rao, the first Indian prime minister to visit Washington since Rajiv  Gandhi in 1987, was the first head of state to address a joint session of  Congress since Russian President Boris Yeltsin was accorded that honor in 1992.
Rao's trip has been billed by both sides as an opportunity to foster a  new, positive relationship between the two countries that has been strained  over the past year.
Rao's address before Congress, the confirmation hearings for  ambassador-designate Frank Wisner Tuesday and Rao's Thursday's meeting with  President Bill Clinton and other cabinet members are all aimed at easing some  of those tensions.
India has been miffed over the 18-month delay in naming a US ambassador to  such a key post and over US administration efforts to bypass a congressional  ban and go ahead with the sale of 38 F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan.
Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott tried to persuade Pakistan in  April to accept a verifiable cap on its nuclear weapons in exchange for a  one-time waiver of a ban on the sale of the jets that Pakistan has already  paid for.
Pakistan has resisted such a cap and on Wednesday argued that its nuclear  capability had protected it from attack by India, which also claims it needs a  nuclear defense because of a potential threat from China.
