Both the United States and China would lose  heavily if they launch a trade war over human rights, but the conflict would  also be a major blow for Taiwan and Hong Kong, Asian analysts said.
While many predicted that US President Bill Clinton will seek to avoid the  war, all agreed that tens of billions of dollars are at stake in lost exports  and economic growth.
Clinton, meeting an election pledge, must decide by June 3 whether China  has made "significant overall progress" in human rights to warrant renewal of  most-favoured-nation (MFN) status, exempting Chinese goods from US customs  tariffs.
In Beijing, diplomats and businessmen warned of a visceral response from  China if Clinton scraps MFN or renews it with tough conditions.
The United States is China's biggest trade partner and its biggest source  of hard currency.
Chinese exports to the United States jumped 23 percent to 31.4 billion  dollars last year while imports rose 17.8 percent to 8.6 billion dollars,  giving China a surplus of 22.8 billion dollars, up 25 percent on 1992.
Should MFN be withdrawn, China's textiles, garments, footwear and toys  sectors -- the bulk of its exports to the United States -- would be the  sectors worst hit by the higher tariffs.
American businessmen in Beijing, whose corporations have invested more  than eight billion dollars in China, fear that a tit-for-tat conflict would  effectively block them from the world's fastest-growing economy.
"They would simply put some big American contracts in the fridge," a  western diplomat said.
"It's important for both sides that this doesn't develop into a major  row," he said. "It is a very sensitive time in China's history and in the  development of the Asia-Pacific. Nations on the sidelines should focus on the  gravity of a fracas in terms of regional and global trade."
In Hong Kong, the government estimates that loss of MFN would spell a drop  of three percentage points in local gross domestic product, which this year is  expected to grow by 5.5 percent, and cause the loss of up to 75,000 jobs.
China accounted for 35 percent of Hong Kong's total external trade in  1993. Moreover, Hong Kong accounted for two-thirds of foreign investment in  China -- and China in turn is probably the biggest foreign investor in Hong  Kong.
Hong Kong-China trade both ways last year was about 1.15 trillion Hong  Kong dollars (148.77 billion US).
Hong Kong is also a major source of transshipment for goods between the  Communist mainland and nationalist Taiwan, as well as between China and the  United States.
"We've made it clear all along that we would like to see unconditional  renewal of MFN," Governor Chris Patten said this week.
Anthony Chester Chan, regional economist at Mees Pierson Securities (Asia)  Ltd., said: "Most institutional investors are expecting a renewal of MFN,  maybe with some conditions attached."
But Washington would have problems enforcing selective trade sanctions, he  said.
"The classic case is the joint venture. Is it a state company, or is it a  non-state company? It's very, very difficult for Clinton to actually implement  a policy with certain conditions."
Ian Perkin, chief economist at the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce,  said: "The blow to confidence would be so great (if MFN is revoked altogether)  that you'd have a bigger effect than the government figures would suggest."
"If you were considering investment in hotels, real estate, power plants,  whatever, you might have second thoughts. The impact could spread far and  wide."
Taiwanese investors in labor-intensive industries on the mainland also  stand to suffer if MFN is not renewed.
Makers of a range of low-value goods as textiles, toys and umbrellas would  be forced to make a costly review of their investment strategies if MFN is  revoked, said Lin Chien-shan, president of Taiwan's World Economics Society.
"If China loses the favourable status, that will cut the competitive edge  of their products in the US," Lin said. "They might switch operations to  Mexico and some Southeast Asian countries."
China has become a favoured investment site for Taiwan businessmen, given  the similarity in language, history and culture between the two countries, as  well as cheaper labour and raw materials.
Taiwanese manufacturers in China often share the mainland's quotas, taking  advantage of preferential treatment offered by other countries.
Total Taiwanese investment in the mainland is estimated at 13 billion  dollars, involving some 3,000 plants. But there is no way to estimate what  proportion of their products were destined for the United States.
