German troops will march down the  Champs-Elysees in Paris for the July 14 Bastille Day military parade, the  first time German soldiers will have paraded along the avenue since their  wartime occupation of France.
President Francois Mitterrand, winding up a Franco-German summit less than  a week before the 50th anniversary of the allied Normandy landings in World  War II, told reporters that German troops in the multinational European force  Eurocorps would be invited for the annual military parade.
Mitterrand's invitation to Germany to take part in Bastille Day was seen  as an attempt to mollify German sensitivities after Kohl was reportedly  irritiated at being excluded from the Normandy celebrations.
"I have decided to invite for July 14, the European corps and therefore  German, Belgian, Luxemburg, and Spanish officials who are participants or  about to become participants," Mitterrand said.
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, attending the 63rd Franco-German summit  with Mitterrand, replied: "It is a generous gesture we will respond warmly to,  and we hope our compatriots will find in it inspiration for the Europe of  tomorrow."
Adolf Hitler paraded Wehrmacht troops down the Champs-Elyses on June 14,  1940 in a victory march to celebrate the total defeat of the French armed  forces and a British expeditionary force.
Conceived as the foundation of a European army within the Western European  Union (WEU), Eurocorps was formed with a division each from France and Germany  in 1991. Belgium, Spain and Luxembourg have since joined in and the unit,  based in Strasbourg, will be operational in 1995.
Speaking of the German capitulation on May 8 and 9, 1945, and the Normandy  landings, Kohl said: "With numerous memories, we have come a long way. I can  see only one word to describe it: 'Fantastic'. Fantastic that Germany and  Germany have made so much progress on this road."
German newspapers reported that Kohl was irritated at not being invited to  the Normandy celebrations, but he insisted he did not want to take part in the  celebration of a German defeat.
To smooth any ruffled feathers, Kohl and Mitterrand said they would preside  together over a Franco-German youth festival at Heidelberg, south-west  Germany, two days before the D-Day anniversary on June 6.
A highlight of the first day of talks on Monday came when Kohl gave  Mitterrand a painting by French impressionist Claude Monet stolen by Nazi  troops during World War II and asked that it be returned to its former owners.  Twenty-seven other old masters taken by the Germans and kept in museums in  former East Germany will also be returned.
Of the return of the paintings, Mitterrand said it was "a more than  symbolic gesture" and would go down as "an important act of Franco-German  solidarity in the course of the past half-century."
The Franco-German summit is aimed at coordinating the French and German  stand on European issues and ahead of the Naples summit of the seven most  industrialised countries on July 8-10. Bonn takes over the six-month rotating  European Union (EU) presidency from Greece in July, with France next in line  for next winter.
The two countries will use the presidencies to "accentuate the  rapprochement of the EU and the WEU," a communique said after a meeting of the  Franco-German Defence Council here.
The communique also confirmed they will build a new military transport  plane to meet "strategic mobility" requirements and which could be operational  by 2003.
