Russia intends to unconditionally sign NATO's  Partnership for Peace plan of military cooperation with countries of the  former Soviet bloc, Defence Minister Pavel Grachev said here Tuesday.
His surprise announcement, after a meeting with NATO defence ministers,  contradicted Russia's previous assertions that it would not join the plan  unless NATO also offered Moscow special political links with the alliance.
But Grachev warned that Russia would be presenting NATO on Wednesday with  its own ideas on the program, since the version on offer "does not fully set  forth the principles and themes of cooperation (as sought by Russia.)"
Earlier Tuesday, the defence ministers of the North Atlantic Treaty  Organisation had reacted cautiously to Russia's repeated demands for formal  political links. Instead, they offered a limited range of dialogue.
The ministers said Russian involvement in European military affairs should  depend on the extent of Moscow's participation in the partnership. They  rejected its request for a treaty with NATO outside the partnership.
But they identified controls on the spread of nuclear weapons as an area  where the two sides could develop special links satisfactory to Moscow's  ambition for special ties with NATO to reflect its big-power status.
NATO deputy secretary-general Sergio Balanzino said after a day-long  meeting: "We are ready to open dialogue with Russia to discuss constructive  cooperation in areas of common interest."
Grachev was in Brussels to brief the ministers on Russia's long-awaited  post-Cold War military doctrine, particularly as it applies to Moscow's  military involvement in neighbouring countries of the former Soviet Union.
But equal interest had been focused on the stand-off between NATO, which  badly wants Russia to join the military partnership, and Moscow's insistence  that it wants a special political accord as well.
US Secretary of State William Perry said NATO wanted and expected Russia to  make a contribution to the partnership program -- particularly to joint  peacekeeping exercises -- in relation to the massive size of its military.
He said areas not covered in the partnership, such as nuclear issues,  could be pursued bilaterally between Brussels and Moscow, but added that no  decision had been taken to sign any special deal with Moscow.
And German Defence Minister Volker Ruehe said any direct links between  NATO and Russia would never result in the division of Europe into NATO and  Russian zones of influence as feared in some eastern European capitals.
Responding to eastern European fears of Russian domination in Europe, he  said Moscow would never be able to veto any NATO decision to bring eastern  European countries into the alliance as full members.
However, the German minister said there was consensus among the defence  ministers that NATO needed to meet the Russians half-way.
Several partnership members, particularly Poland and Hungary, have made it  clear they see the partnership as a half-way house to full NATO membership, a  position which has been received with hostility in Moscow.
Ruehe said: "If other countries have the possibility to join NATO as real  members and Russia cannot, we must give the Russians something else."
