Pakistan's opposition Friday accused the  government of entering into a secret deal with the United States to open the  country's nuclear facilities to inspection.
The opposition attack came after Foreign Minister Assef Ahmed Ali said  Wednesday that Islamabad was ready to consider proposals from the United  States on "non-intrusive" means to verify that Pakistan was not producing  nuclear weapons.
The leader of the opposition Pakistan Muslim League, Nawaz Sharif, a  former prime minister, said "to agree to non-intrusive verfification means  inspection which is worse than a roll back."
The foreign minister's statement coincided with Pakistani President Farooq  Ahmed Leghari's departure a private visit to the United States to meet with US  officials.
The foreign ministry later denied reports quoting Ali as telling reporters  that Pakistan was ready to "accept" non-intrusive inspection of nuclear  installations. In a statement, the ministry said Ali had merely indicated "our  willingness to continue consultations" with the United States on security and  non-proliferation in South Asia.
"If during the consultations, the Americans make any specific proposals,  we will naturally give them serious consideration, taking into account  Pakistan's principled policy on the nuclear issue which remains unchanged," it  said.
In April, Washington asked Islamabad to agree to a "verifiable cap" on  production of missile materials in exchange for a one-time waiver of the  embargo imposed against it in 1990 under the Pressler Amendment.
The proposal was discussed by US Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott  with Pakistani leaders in Islamabad, but no immediate agreement was reported,  although the two sides decided to continue talks on it.
The embargo cut off US economic and military assistance to Pakistan and  stalled the delivery of 38 F-16 fighters paid for by Islamabad in a 1989 deal.
Ali has said Washington now realized that a regional solution to the  nuclear issue was needed in South Asia and that there were "positive" signs  the F-16 issue might be resolved this year.
