French intellectuals who decided to stand in  European elections on a pro-Moslem Bosnia ticket called off the bid on Monday,  giving a potential boost to the lacklustre campaign of opposition Socialist  Party leader Michel Rocard.
Philosopher Bernard-Henri Levy's leftish "Europe begins in Sarajevo" list  put the war in Bosnia at the centre of the campaign, eclipsing a debate on  European construction, threatening to split the socialist vote and forcing the  government to defend its policies.
Rocard seemed likely to fall well below the 20 percent of the vote target  he set himself in the June 12 poll, threatening his credibility as the  socialist candidate in May, 1995 presidential elections to succeed President  Francois Mitterrand.
Former health minister Bernard Kouchner, no. 3 on Rocard's list, welcomed  the withdrawal as "wise and courageous". Even though it was worthwhile to  spark a debate on a "burning issue," Kouchner said, "it would have been stupid  to go through with it."
After a long night of debate overnight Sunday, Levy said in a statement  however that the intellectuals on the "Europe starts at Sarajevo" list would  continue to campaign, even if they "would not go to a vote." He added they  would "pursue other forms of action" and had decided to set up a national  committee to be known as "Vigilance Sarajevo."
The list, headed by leading cancer specialist Leon Schwartzenberg, was  registered only last Friday. In practice the Sarajevo list has not been  formally withdrawn but the group will not print any ballot papers for the poll.
According to electoral laws, any group that registered for the poll could  have withdrawn its list up until last Friday at 8:00 p.m. by presenting a  document to that effect signed by a majority of the candidates involved.
That means that the Sarajevo list is still technically in the race and can  legally benefit from air time attributed to each group registered for the poll.
The intellectuals had threatened to stand if mainstream politicians did  not meet a number of conditions, notably by demanding an immediate end to the  arms embargo on former Yugoslavia in favour of the Bosnian Moslems alone.
They also demanded that candidates reject the European Union's partition  plan for Bosnia allocating 51 percent of the territory to a Croat-Moslem  federation and 49 percent to Bosnian Serbs.
Rocard was the only major politician to meet the intellectuals' conditions  and it seemed illogical to campaign against someone sympathetic to their  cause, analysts said.
The list came in for an avalanche of criticism from both right-wing  politicians and from other intellectuals.
Historians Pierre Vidal-Naquet and Pierre Chaunu accused the pro-Bosnians  of "blowing hot air" while writer Regis Debray, a one-time advisor to  President Francois Mitterrand, criticised "those who puff up their chests as  professors of morality."
The intellectuals would only deserve "his respect" if "they backed their  words with deeds and went off to fight in Bosnia," Debray said.
Foreign Minister Alain Juppe, whom was criticised by Levy for his "policy  of capitulation" on Bosnia called him a "festival strategist," an allusion to  Levy's documentary film Bosna shown at the Cannes film festival.
The Sarajevo list was credited with seven and 12 percent of the vote in  two opinion polls published last week, but dropped to four percent in the  latest poll published on Sunday.
