de Mello
(UPDATES with new UNPROFOR statement)
SARAJEVO, May 23 (AFP) - The United Nations must act "very fast" to ensure  the "total withdrawal" of Bosnian Serb forces from the Moslem enclave of  Gorazde, said a UN Protection Force official Monday.
The UNPROFOR's civil affairs director in ex-Yugoslavia, Sergio Vieira de  Mello, was speaking after "useful discussions" with Bosnian Prime Minister  Haris Silajdzic here on the situation in Gorazde, from where Bosnian Serb  commanders failed to pull out 150 armed policemen at the weekend, as agreed.
"Obviously, the success of peace talks depends on the total cessation of  hostilities," de Mello said. He added that a ceasefire was conditional on the  Serbs withdrawing from a fixed three-kilometre (1.9 mile) exclusion zone  around the town.
"I have every reason to believe that if we resolve satisfactorily the  Gorazde issue ... there will be no difficulty in moving to the next stage:   negotiations on a general cessation of hostilities," the UN official added.
The Serbs were supposed to pull out Sunday after an accord signed Saturday  by Serb and UN representatives. UN spokesman in Sarajevo, Major Rob Annink,  said the Serbs had made the pullout conditional on the departure of 570 Serbs  in the town and also the withdrawal of mainly Moslem Bosnian government forces.
"It is a disappointment that the Bosnian Serb army did not react to the  agreement," Annink said.
Under the accord, signed by the commander of UN troops in Bosnia,  Lieutenant General Sir Michael Rose, and Bosnian Serb military leader Manojlo  Milovanovic, the Serbs were to redeploy the 150 men outside the exclusion zone  by 6:00 p.m. (1600 GMT) Sunday.
The Bosnian army did not sign Saturday's agreement, de Mello explained, as  its leaders felt "it is the responsability of UNPROFOR to ensure the  withdrawal of the Bosnian Serbs from the area.
Observers warned the Serbs' failure to abide by the Gorazde accord could  torpedo the resumption of peace talks on Bosnia-Hercegovina.
The Serbs did, however, pledge to guarantee the UNPROFOR freedom of  movement within a 20-kilometre (12-mile) heavy weapons exclusion zone around  Gorazde.
Major Annink said the Serbs had earlier told UN military observers they  would not be granted freedom of movement within the exclusion zone until 570  Serbs were allowed out of Gorazde and Bosnian troops stationed on a hill  outside the town.
Overnight, two FROG ground-to-ground missiles fell on Kladanj, some 50  kilometres (31 miles) from the northeastern mostly Moslem-inhabited town of  Tuzla, injuring eight people, Bosnian military sources said.
A UN spokesman for northeastern Bosnia, Captain Jens Kirk, confirmed the  missile assault on Kladanj and said an investigation was under way.
Other Bosnian sources meanwhile said Bosnian Serb troops had recaptured  positions around Kocar, above Kladanj, which they had lost in a Moslem  offensive at the start of the month.
With regard to events in Kocar, Captain Kirk would only speak of  "shelling" in the region.
