Bosnian leaders reacted angrily Saturday to US  backing for a European peace plan dividing Bosnia, viewing it as a reward for  Serb aggression, but Serbs also rejected the proposed territorial division.
The plan endorsed by the United States, Russia and five west European  states in Geneva late Friday would provide 51 percent of Bosnia-Hercegovina to  a Bosnian Croat-Moslem federation and 49 percent to Serbs.
Bosnian vice-president Ejup Ganic said: "They (the leading powers) want us  to achieve a peace settlement and at the same they want us to swallow the  results of ethnic cleansing. Those two things are contradictory."
He said the Geneva meeting participants did not deny the London conference  principle of rejecting territorial gains made by force.
"Now they say: go in the direction of 51 percent/49 percent, which of  course will not produce results," Ganic said.
Asked whether the Moslem Bosnians were ready for new negotiations within  two weeks as the Geneva meeting urged, Ganic declined to answer directly but  said: "We are being squeezed by the international community".
He said the 51 percent for Croats and Moslems did not provide enough place  for the people concerned, and he warned of the dangerous precedent of giving  into aggression.
"If you legitimize ethnic cleansing and genocide then of course it means  that you given a green light for similar cases to start somewhere else," Ganic  said.
However he found "interesting" the Geneva meeting's call for a cessation  of hostilities with the withdrawal of heavy artillery. "I think that this is  something we will look carefully at and that we will negotiate with the  Serbs," he said.
Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic, who also condemned the new  US-European-Russian stand, met in Geneva Saturday with US Secretary of State  Warren Christopher.
Despite a bitter complaint from Silajdzic that Friday's stand amounted to  "rewarding pure force", Christopher said Saturday that the Bosnian premier  seemed to understand the US point of view.
"I told him we were doing everything we could to ensure that a reasonable  settlement is achieved for the Bosnian government. He seemed to understand  that point of view," Christopher said.
The two are due to meet again Sunday.
The secretary of state, speaking after also meeting Saturday with Russian  Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, revealed that in their meeting Friday the  foreign ministers considered the possibility of calling a special summit to  cap the Bosnian peace process.
The Bosnian Serbs Saturday said the Croats and Moslem Bosnians could not  have the 51 percent the European plan would give them, the Bosnian Serb news  agency reported.
Momcilo Krajisnik, president of the Bosnian Serbs' self-styled parliament,  said they in no way have more than the Serbs "as they are neither moral nor  military victors and moreover do not possess such a proportion of territory".
"We believe that one has to take into account the situation on the ground,  namely that the Serbs control 73 per cent of the territory and that they are  owners of 64 percent," he was quoted as saying.
