North Yemen forces bidding to smash a secession bid  by the south said Sunday they had seized control of a strategic military base  used by southern forces to battle loyalists closing in on Aden.
A military spokesman in Sanaa told the official Saba news agency that the  military base at Ateq, capital of the oil-producing province of Shabwa, had  fallen to government troops.
"All of the base's facilities are in the hands of the legal (northern)  forces," the spokesman said.
The northern forces loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh also said they  had been in control of another southern military base at Al-Anad since Friday  and had now surrounded the southern stronghold of Aden.
Ateq lies 130 kilometers (78 miles) east of Aden.
And in Lahaj province to the west of Aden and Abyan province to the east  of the southern capital, northern forces "cleaned up several pockets of  resistance," the spokesman said.
The claims could not be independently confirmed.
Earlier Saleh said his troops were heading for the port of Mukalla 500  kilometers (300 miles) northeast of Aden, to where southern secessionist  leader Ali Salem al-Baid has retreated.
In Aden four people were reported killed and nine wounded Sunday in what  the south said was a missile attack on a residential district of the city. The  north denied firing a missile at the city.
In another development, Baid was named president Sunday of the breakaway  Yemen Democratic Republic he had proclaimed overnight Friday in what was  marxist South Yemen until north and south were unified four years ago.
Baid, the secretary-general of the Yemen Socialist Party (YSP) -- formerly  the ruling party in South Yemen -- was elected chairman of a five-man  presidential council formed early Sunday to run the breakaway state.
In a speech broadcast over Aden radio to mark the Al-Adha Moslem feast,  Baid vowed that his troops would not surrender.
"Southern forces refuse to surrender to the criminal gang that is using  all its might to destroy cities and lay siege to Aden," Al-Baid said in  Mukallah his native town in Hadramaut province.
So far only Iraq has firmly condemned the south's secession, which  followed months of political wrangling culminating in open war between the  northern and southern troops, who never formed a single army despite  unification.
In a statement Sunday cited by the official Iraqi INA agency, Foreign  Minister Mohammed al-Shahaf said "Iraq supports Yemen's legal and  constitutional authorities" and denounced the south's "heinous" declaration of  independence.
In Rabat, Moroccan King Hassan II urged Yemen's leaders to preserve a  unified Yemen at what it called "a crucial movement" in its history.
Jordanian Deputy Prime Minister Said al-Tall said Jordan "supports  legality in Yemen and the unity of its people".
The north has issued a statement implying that it would sever links with  any country recognising the new republic.
Sanaa radio said the north would negotiate only with elements of the YSP  opposed to secession. The comment came after a faction of the southern party  reportedly came out against Al-Baid.
Saba news agency said several political parties had denounced the  secession, including the pro-Iraqi Baath and Al-Haq, a moderate Islamic group.
Meanwhile international relief organisations will start evacuating up to  5,000 Somali refugees from the war zone in the south to a safer location  further north on Monday, a senior UN official said Sunday.
The Somalis who fled war in their own country, have been virtually without  food and water at the Al-Koud camp on the south coast since the civil war  erupted on May 5. They are to be moved to a site by a river north of Jaar.
