The special contact group of countries  mediating in the Bosnia conflict meets the warring parties here on Wednesday  intending to pull out all the stops to get Serbs and allied Croats and Moslems  to accept a ceasefire and a virtual 50-50 territorial carve-up.
The meeting on the shores of Lake Annecy will bring together experts from  the United States, Russia, the European Union and the United Nations as well  as Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic, Bosnian Croat leader Kresimir Zubak  and Momcilo Krajisnik, the hardline parliament speaker of the self-proclaimed  Bosnian Serb republic.
The stakes are high both for the three Bosnian parties and the negotiators  who will have the task of trying to persuade the Serbs and the more reluctant  Moslems to accept a map giving 51 percent of Bosnia-Hercegovina to the  Moslem-Croat federation and 49 percent to the Serbs.
The Moslems and Croats are demanding 58 percent, while the Serbs presently  control 70 percent of the republic.
Each of the parties has drawn up its own map and it will be no mean task  on the part of the contact group to forge a common ground on how much  territory will be allotted to each.
The contact group is pushing the Bosnian factions to agree to a ceasefire  of at least four months as a prelude to a permanent peace.
Foreign ministers from the contact group countries presented their map on  May 13 at a meeting at which they gave Croat, Moslem and Serb leaders two  weeks to return to the negotiating table.
France and Britain warned publicly that their UN contingents might be  withdrawn from Bosnia unless there was significant progress towards peace by  the end of this year.
The Serbs have welcomed the proposal for a general ceasefire which would  preserve the military status quo and allow them to hang on to most of their  territorial gains.
The Moslems are much more reticent, particularly as they have gone on the  offensive apparently in the hope of clawing back enough territory to bolster  their margin of manoeuvre at the negotiating table.
The Bosnians also fully intend to take advantage of their new alliance with  the Croats to obtain more arms via Croatia and circumvent the UN arms embargo.
During a brief "private visit" to Paris on Sunday and Monday, Bosnian  President Alija Izetbegovic frankly told French politicians that the Moslems  had no choice but to fight in the absence of any other acceptable alternative.
In Talloires, the Moslems and Croats are therefore likely to dig in their  heels to secure more than the 51 percent of territory being offered them. The  Serbs are expected to insist on an unlimited ceasefire.
It will take all the expertise of the diplomats and perhaps  behind-the-scenes pressure from the big powers to win acceptance of the peace  plan drawn up in Geneva.
France has done its best to ensure that the negotiations take place  undisturbed in this quiet lakeside town in the Alps. The meeting will take  place in one of the best French hostelries, out of range of the prying eyes of  journalists who will be kept at a distance by a large squad of gendarmes.
Meanwhile on the ground in Bosnia, the mainly Moslem government forces  have stepped up attacks on Serb-held positions in the north and east, the UN  Protection Force said Tuesday.
The Moslems appeared to be attacking Serb positions near Tesanj and round  Maglaj, both Moslem-held towns, UN observers said.
Further north, Brcko, under Serb control, was shelled for the second day  running in attacks attributed by the UN to Bosnian government troops.
Bosnian troops also shelled the northern Serb-held town of Doboj Tuesday  for the second consecutive day, Belgrade's Tanjug news agency said.
Tanjug said that Moslem forces last week seized Vijenac, a key area of  Mount Ozren overlooking the Moslem town of Tuzla.
