France will cut its peacekeeping presence by more  than one-third in the former Yugoslavia, pulling out 2,500 soldiers by the end  of the year, Defense Minister Francois Leotard said Tuesday.
"We have begun a process of withdrawal of a certain number of battalions  we have there, first the one in Glina in Krajina (Serb-controlled territory in  Croatia) and then the one in Bihac" in northwest Bosnia, Leotard said in a  radio interview.
"Before the end of the year, there will be about 2,500 fewer French  soldiers on the territory of the former Yugoslavia," he said. France currently  has some 6,800 troops (eds correct) stationed there.
A senior military source said Tuesday the pull-out from Glina was planned  for June 15.
The withdrawal of the French battalion from Glina was announced a few  months ago by the French government. At the time, it said 1,000 more troops  would be sent to the Bosnian capital but that there would be no overall  increase because of the Glina pull-out.
But Leotard went further Tuesday announcing the retreat of the French  battalion of 1,200 men in the Bihac pocket, probably at the end of a six-month  mission that just started for the latest group there.
A military source said France has been pushing UNPROFOR to replace the  French battalion there by one from another country.
The move came after Foreign Minister Alain Juppe threatened to pull out  all French troops -- which make up the largest contingent of the UN Protection  Force (UNPROFOR) in former Yugoslavia -- if progress towards a peace  settlement was not made.
A total French withdrawal could lead to the collapse of the UN  humanitarian mission in Bosnia and the world body's efforts to protect six  "safe areas" of Moslem concentration from being over-run by Serb forces.
The French UN troops are deployed in both Croatia -- the UN Protection  Force headquarters are in Zagreb -- and Bosnia. There are also French naval  forces patrolling the Adriatic sea and French aircraft based in Italy.
Leotard's announcement of a partial disengagement followed an earlier  limited retreat last year of part of a logistical support battalion France had  made available to UNPROFOR headquarters in Zagreb.
A senior military official said that what France really wants to do is  "regroup and concentrate" its military effort in Sarajevo by gradually  disengaging from the multiple positions where troops are now based.
An authoritative source said domestic political considerations played a  part in France's latest move.
The high cost of financing French troops in former Yugoslavia -- which in  1993 was nearly three billion francs (526 million dollars) -- has taken its  toll back home in recession-hit France.
This coupled with the French casualty toll in ex-Yugoslavia -- 20 dead and  300 wounded -- has led Prime Minister Edouard Balladur to take a cautious  stance over France's military engagement in the Balkans, the source said.
The French premier told parliament last week that the time was approaching  when France would have to consider if there was any point in continuing her  presence in Bosnia if the "Great Powers" and the warring factions did not show  willingness to take appropriate steps to end the conflict.
Ceasefire violations and sniper fire are becoming increasingly common in  Sarajevo and fighting has continued unabated in various parts of the country.
On Monday, a French Gazelle helicopter was targeted by Bosnian Serb troops  near Sarajevo and two armoured vehicles were hit by sniper fire. No one was  injured in either incident.
