Acclaimed Chinese director Zhang Yimou's absence  from the Cannes Film Festival reflects efforts to avoid a showdown with  Beijing during a major crackdown on the industry, sources said Wednesday.
Zhang released a statement Tuesday in Cannes saying he was boycotting the  festival in protest at Chinese censors' failure to approve his film "Huozhe"  (To Live).
The film, which follows the life of a family from the 1940s to 1970s,  including the turbulent years of the Cultural Revolution, was premiered at the  festival.
But sources said the director's decision to stay away also reflected  efforts not to create even more trouble. The Chinese authorities are cracking  down on the industry amid fears it is slipping from central control as more  and more film-makers look overseas for funding.
"The Chinese government is very angry about Zhang's film going to the  festival," one source said, adding that officials had contacted the Hong Kong  production partners several times urging them to withdraw the entry.
"The most important thing in Zhang's life is making films, so he does not  want a big fight with the government," one source said, adding that by staying  away from Cannes he hoped to both express his dissatisfaction with the Chinese  censors and avoid a major showdown.
"The last thing he wants is to be banned from making films," he said.
The participation in international film festivals of several Sino-foreign  co-productions that were not submitted for Chinese censorhip has drawn a  furious reaction from Beijing in the past year.
It has responded by withdrawing official entries from the festivals,  banning several young Chinese film-makers from making movies in China and  ordering that all co-productions be approved before distribution here or  abroad.
Zhang, who had appeared to have gained some official acceptance in recent  years following the overseas success of films like "Raise the Red Lantern" and  "The Story of Qiu Ju," was unavailable for comment Wednesday on the almost  total silence of censors since "To Live" was submitted in late March.
"Beijing said in April the film needed some changes but this was only an  excuse. In fact it seems they thought it had major political problems and  didn't want it to be shown," a source said.
Wang Bing, assistant director of "To Live," said the film simply tried to  paint a true-to-life picture of life in China.
"This is the first time Zhang has used a major event in modern history to  reflect his personal views and show his deep love for Chinese people," said  Wang.
"He just wanted to reflect the real lives of ordinary Chinese people at  that time, their hardships and their hopes," he said, adding Zhang's attention  to content rather than form represented a major departure from his previous  works.
Some film industry sources expressed surprise over censors' failure to  approve the film, saying the decade-long chaos of the Cultural Revolution had  long been "fair game" for criticism in China.
However, others were less surprised, pointing to extreme official  sensitivity as the fifth anniversary of the Tiananmen massacre approaches and  concern about instability following the death of 89-year-old paramount leader  Deng Xiaoping grows.
"It seems the government is worried that people criticising the Cultural  Revolution may really be using it to criticise the situation now," said one  film-maker. "China's policy is that you can criticise the Cultural Revolution  -- but please don't do it now."
"The problem is that there are no laws or standards on approval, so it  just depends what the censors think," another source said.
