A special assembly of federal members of parliament  and regional delegates meets in Berlin next Monday to choose the first head of  state of a reunited Germany in what promises to be a close-run vote.
The assembly has to find a replacement for the popular and well-respected  Richard von Weizsaecker, aged 74, who will have served the maximum of two  five-year terms allowed by the constitution and therefore must retire.
Everyone agrees that this gentle aristocrat who successfully incarnated  the moral conscience of modern Germany during a time of upheaval and change  will be a hard man to follow.
Four candidates are running in the May 23 vote, which comes ahead of a  general legislative election in October amid an unusually marked lack of  consensus among the parties over this largely honorific post.
Although once elected the head of state is supposed to be above party  politics -- Weizsaecker was from Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian Democrat  Union (CDU) -- the post is being bitterly fought over by the parties.
The favourite is Roman Herzog, a CDU politician and expert in  jurisprudence with a clear-cut conservative reputation, who is currently  president of the German constitutional court.
Herzog, aged 60, is the candidate of Chancellor Kohl's rightwing CDU and  its ultra-conservative Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU).
He is the conservatives' second candidate, after Kohl's personal choice of  Steffen Heitmann, from eastern Germany, was forced to drop out of the race  because of controversy over his outspokenly rightwing views.
Running against Herzog will be Johannes Rau, 63, the candidate of the  opposition Social Democrats, (SPD), who has been premier of the important  regional government of North Rhine-Westphalia for the last 15 years.
Rau is a well-known and popular figure, both within his party and in the  country at large, and if there were a vote by universal suffrage he could be  expected to win, according to opinion polls.
