Premier Li Peng on Tuesday joined senior Chinese  leaders in stressing the absolute need to ensure social stability, as the  authorities brace for the fifth anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre.
In a speech carried on the front page of all major Chinese newspapers, Li  rammed home the dictum of top leader Deng Xiaoping: "Without a stable social  and political environment, it will be impossible to carry out reforms or  construction."
Publication of the speech coincided with the brief detention in Beijing of  Wang Dan, a prominent student leader during the 1989 pro-democracy movement.
Wang was picked up at his house by 10 police officers while being  interviewed by foreign journalists, but was released an hour later.
Li's remarks echoed an ominous warning delivered by President Jiang Zemin  just five days earlier, when he defended the bloody June 4 suppression of the  1989 movement and stressed that national stability would be maintained at any  cost.
"In the early period of establishing a socialist market economic  structure, it is of strategic importance to maintain social stability," Li  said in his speech to a national conference of civil affairs officials.
This was invaluable experience, acquired by China over the previous  decade, Li said.
Since the start of the year, Chinese leaders have repeatedly emphasised  the paramount importance of national stability, backing their rhetoric with  widespread arrests of dissidents and a law-and-order crackdown that has seen a  sharp rise in the number of executions.
In an editorial accompanying Li's speech, the official communist party  newspaper, the People's Daily, said the "defence of social stability" was the  most important task facing the party and the country as a whole.
In a more explicit reference to the upcoming anniversary, the Legal Daily  reported that a nationwide police campaign was under way to secure stability  "during the summer season."
According to the newspaper, tens of thousands of criminals have been  rounded up in the past two months, including almost 6,500 between April 1-20  in the eastern province of Jiangsu.
More than 2,000 criminals were picked up on a single day last month in the  northeastern province of Shandong, it added.
Despite the recent release of several prominent dissidents, the wave of  arrests and executions clearly demonstrates the intention of the authorities  to take a hard line in ensuring political and social stability, even as the  United States prepares to decide whether to renew China's most-favoured-nation  trade (MFN) status.
President Bill Clinton must decide by June 3 on MFN renewal which  Washington has linked to progress in human rights in China.
On Monday, Li warned visiting former US national security adviser Zbigniew  Brzezinski that foreign governments should not focus "on the words or views of  a tiny number of Chinese to the ignorance and wishes of all other Chinese  people," the official media reported.
In a rare public reference to the June 4 crackdown, Jiang said Thursday  that without the "resolute measures" taken by the army in 1989, China would  not enjoy its current stability.
By invoking the memory of June 4, Jiang issued the strongest warning to  date that the government is willing to take all measures necessary --  including military force -- to eliminate any perceived threat to its position.
The fear of social unrest has dominated policy at the very heart of the  Chinese leadership since the launch at the beginning of the year of  far-reaching economic reforms that have fuelled inflation and regional  economic disparities.
The authorities are especially concerned that rumblings in the countryside  over rising prices and low incomes could develop into a major challenge to the  communist party's rural base.
In his speech Monday, Li urged governments at all levels "to pay close  attention to solving the problem of poverty in rural areas."
