Following are excerpts of a letter from  International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Hans Blix to UN Secretary  General Boutros Boutros-Ghali on the failed talks on nuclear inspections in  North Korea:
In my letter to you of 19 May, I asked you to bring an important new  development in the DPRK (North Korea) to the attention of the Security  Council. This was that, despite agency requests to the contrary, the DPRK had  started operations related to the refueling of its 5MWe experimental nuclear  power reactor without enabling safeguards activities stated by the agency as  being indispensable at the time of the refueling ....
In a telex of May 21, the DPRK declined to accede to the agency's request  to suspend the refueling operation "due to the present situation of the  reactor and the technical safety reasons." The DPRK also reiterated its  position, given in a telex of 12 May, that the safeguards activities rquested  by the agency would be permitted "if the further round of DPRK/USA talks would  take place, even during the core refueling operation" ...
A team of two agency officials left Vienna on 22 May arriving in the DPRK  on 24 May. Over a three-day period, i.e. from 25-27 May the team had extensive  negotiations with DPRK officials in Pyongyang and with operators of the  experimental nuclear power reactor at Nyongbyon in an attempt to reach an  agreement about how to proceed with the implementation of the safeguards  measures required. Unfortunately no agreement was reached ....
At the time of writing this report almost half of the fuel in the reactor  core has been discharged and in a pattern that has precluded the agency's  ability to implement the full range of the safeguard measures required.
The agency assesses that if the discharge operation continues at the same  rate, as the operator has confirmed will be so, the agency's ability to  select, segregate and secure fuel rods for later measurements in accordance  with agency standards will be lost within days. Should this be the case the  agency will not be in a position to verify, with any degree of confidence,  that all nuclear material in the DPRK that is subject to safeguards is in fact  under safeguards. Specifically, the agency will not be in a position to verify  the amount of plutonium produced in the DPRK.
