South African Deputy President Frederik de Klerk  dismissed as "nonsense" Friday press reports that he had handed vast tracts of  land to Zulu monarch Goodwill Zwelithini to forestall an election boycott.
A Johannesberg newspaper said Friday that De Klerk had transferred control  of three million hectares (7.5 million acres) of state land to Zwelithini just  before he, de Klerk, was voted out of office as South African president last  month.
The deal, said the paper, had been made in order to convince Zwelithini  and his uncle, Inkatha Freedom Party leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, to reverse  their boycott of the election.
"There is no truth to the allegation that I secretly handed land to King  Zwelithini," de Klerk said after a speech here.
He said the transfer had, in fact, taken place, but according to the terms  of legislation adopted by the KwaZulu Legislative Assembly.
"There was no question of secrecy," said de Klerk. "The bill was presented  to me for signature ...and I was obliged to approve the legislation which had  been duly adopted by the KwaZulu Legislative Assembly."
In a Nobel laureate lecture at London's Royal Albert Hall, De Klerk  dismissed fears of right-wing terrorism disrupting the fledgling government of  national unity headed by President Nelson Mandela.
"Yes, there remains a handful of dangerous activists...a small lunatic  fringe...and they will have to be dealt with in terms of the law," he said.  "Many of them involved in recent deeds of terrorism have been arrested and  they will be charged in our courts and we will continue in the government of  national unity to act firmly against them in terms of the law.
"We have the responsible leaders from the far right on board now and I'm  confident we'll be able to handle the problem."
De Klerk said international economic sanctions against the apartheid  regime had had little effect, and that change had evolved from within, largely  as a matter of conscience.
"Sanctions, isolation did not have any effect, but I would say that at  times it was counterproductive. It delayed reform because it had a  consolidating effect and politicians could use the anti-South African  sentiment...as a political platform to gather their people together...
"It was a process of deep self-analysis within the National Party that  resulted in the 180 degree turnabout against apartheid," he said.
