Rwandan rebels were Saturday closing in on  Gitarama, the base of Rwanda's self-proclaimed government, amid continued  attacks on the violence-wracked capital Kigali, a UN spokesman said.
Spokesman Abdul Kabia said by telephone that the mainly-Tutsi Rwandan  Patriotic Front "are approaching" Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25 miles) southwest  of Kigali, to where the interim Hutu administration has fled.
Government officials sought refuge in Gitarama after the RPF turned its  offensive towards the capital a month ago, a few weeks after the April 6 death  of President Juvenal Habyarimana in a suspected rocket attack on his plane,  which re-ignited the civil war.
The rebels have described the government, which was put in place following  the president's death, as a "pack of murderers." Between 200,000 and 500,000  people, mostly Tutsis, have died in the last two months of ethnic massacres.
Many of the victims came from the Tutsi minority or were moderate members  of the majority Hutu tribe, massacred by extremist Hutu militias.
According to an AFP correspondent in the region, the rebels are less than   10 kilometers (six miles) from the road linking Gitarama to the border with  Burundi to the south -- a key communications link.
No information was available about the exact distance of the rebels from  Gitarama.
A claim by the rebels to have seized the commercial centre of Ruhango,  near Gitarama, was not confirmed by UN officials, and journalists who had  passed through it said they had seen no rebels.
Meanwhile intermittent artillery duels, between the rebels and government  forces, raged in central Kigali after a lull earlier in the day, he said.
Several mortar rounds landed near the International Committee of the Red  Cross hospital in the city centre, but there were no casualties or damage. It  was not clear which side fired the shells, Kabia said.
Heavy fighting was also reported around the northern town of Ruhengeri,  Kabia added.
UN troops used the lull in fighting earlier in the day to evacuate another  695 civilians from the rebel-besieged capital to safer areas on the outskirts,  Kabia said.
The evacuees included 332 Tutsi holed up at Hotel Mille Collines for  several weeks and 363 Hutus who had taken refuge at the Amahoro stadium.
About 245 displaced people remained in the hotel and 5,500 at the stadium,  Kabia added. Some 480 people were moved from Kigali on Friday.
Government troops and Hutu militias have abandoned several positions as  RPF fighters tightened their grip on the capital.
Rwanda plunged back into turmoil after Habyarimana's death, an estimated  500,000 people fleeing the country in the face of wholesale slaughter which  ensued.
The RPF launched an offensive against government troops and Hutu militia  in an attempt to stop the massacres and grab power from the Hutu-dominated  government.
Meanwhile, Kenyan officials said the heads of state of Kenya, Tanzania,  Uganda and Zaire will meet in the Kenyan capital on June 6, to discuss the  Rwandan crisis.
The meeting is being convened by Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi.
Moi told a gathering in the central district of Muranga on Friday that  neighbouring countries should not "sit back" and watch mass killings in the  central African state without taking action.
The Tutsi rebels on Thursday agreed to a request by UN envoy Iqbal Riza to  begin talks with army commanders aimed at brokering a ceasefire, thus allowing  aid operations to expand.
The World Food Programme has estimated that some 1.6 million displaced  Rwandans are in need of urgent food aid.
