The sole US sanction imposed on Beijing in  renewing its preferential trade status -- a ban on imports of Chinese firearms  -- will hardly be felt by the Chinese army's vast business empire, analysts  here say.
Announcing the renewal of China's Most-Favoured-Nation (MFN) trade status  Thursday, US President Bill Clinton also unveiled a ban on the import of  Chinese munitions, principally guns and ammunition.
The ban is estimated to be worth some 200 million dollars, less than one  percent of China's 22-billion-dollar trade surplus with the United States.
The move fell far short of suggestions that Washington was considering  sanctions against a wide range of military-produced goods that would have  targeted the army's immensely profitable civilian industrial production.
In recent years, the People's Liberation Army (PLA) -- the vanguard of the  communist revolution -- has transformed itself into China's largest business  empire, boasting an estimated 20,000 firms with interests in everything from  transport and heavy industry to karaoke bars.
According to western experts, the annual income generated by PLA  enterprises is now equivalent to the entire defence budget of around six  billion dollars, and the US ban on firearm imports presents only a minor  hiccough on the road to greater fortune.
A spokesman for North Industrial Co. (NORINCO) -- the main exporter of  Chinee arms -- criticised the ban Friday, saying it was "discriminatory" and  insisting its exports to the United States had always conformed with US law.
But diplomats said such firms would in reality be relieved that rumours  that Clinton would impose sanctions on civilian exports had proved unfounded.
"The ban is nothing when set against the scale of the military's civilian  business operations, which probably accounts for around 80 percent of total  output," said one western diplomat who follows military affairs.
"It's purely a cosmetic move by the United States that has a certain  symbolic value given the political importance of the Chinese army," he said.
With the PLA's dismal reputation abroad since its troops suppressed the  1989 pro-democracy movement here and with small-arms from China contributing  significantly for the surge in US gun-ownership and violence, Clinton's move  also has undoubted political mileage in the United States.
Analysts said that Clinton's decision to restrict the ban to firearms  alone reflected a realistic acceptance of the insurmountable difficulties that  wider sanctions on the military industry would have thrown up.
"The broader focusing on all military activities would have been almost  impossible to implement, given the complexity of the military's business  empire," said another western diplomat.
Thousands of PLA subsidiaries and subsidiaries of subsidiaries bear  innocuous names and are, in many cases, tied up in joint ventures with foreign  companies.
The Chinese high command has pledged to rein in the army and redirect its  attentions to military matters, amid concerns that commercialisation is having  a severe impact on professionalism.
But analysts here say the efforts are having little effect on the powerful  business empire, noting that the civilian industries have become a vital  source of revenue for the army.
