US Secretary of State Warren Christopher will  this week try to persuade Syria to set up a joint military commission with  Israel in a fresh bid to unblock their peace talks, a senior official said.
The secretary is expected in Jerusalem on Monday after a day in Damascus  following a shuttle mission at the end of April.
"This trip will aim mainly to establish a military commission between the  two countries," the senior Israeli official said Sunday.
"The commission would draft security arrangements for the border region  and report back to the politicians. Israel would like to have generals sit on  the commission.
"Christopher will try to push this idea with Damascus," he said.
Christopher left the region two weeks ago saying peace efforts had reached  a serious, substantive level after Israel put forward a peace package offering  a phased withdrawal from the Golan Heights.
Israeli officials noted that for the first time Syria had shown  willingness to consider security questions before demanding that Israel give a  prior commitment to surrender all the strategic plateau captured in the 1967  Middle East war.
Now Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin wanted to pursue this opening through a  new commission.
A similar commission was set up by Egypt and Israel and helped to bring  the old enemies together in a peace agreement, the official noted.
"The Washington negotiations have reached nowhere so far and this is an  attempt to get round the obstacles," the official said.
The bilateral peace talks began in October 1991 but have stalled over  Israeli demands for a Syrian pledge to agree total peace with open borders and  Syrian counter demands for an Israeli commitment to quit all the heights.
Environment Minister Yossi Sarid underlined that security arrangements  were the key. "The security arrangements are at the heart of the problem," he  told state radio.
"Rabin and Peres have already said everything necessary about the scale of  withdrawal and the fate of some settlements," Sarid said.
Rabin, who calls for "total peace", has adopted the formula: "The scale of  the withdrawal will depend on the scale of the peace", and made it clear he is  prepared to sacrifice Jewish settlements in exchange for peace.
In public statements, the secretary and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres have  played down expectations.
"It's a long process," Christopher said in Geneva on Saturday. "I don't  have any great ambitions for this particular trip."
But he added: "I do think the parties are serious and I want to play my  part to take the messages back and forth."
Peres said: "For the time being Syria's proposals do not give us much hope.
However his deputy Yossi Beilin was more positive. "We will be able to see  peace between us and Syria within months."
Christopher's schedule is "flexible", according to officials in Jerusalem.  He might return to Syria if necessary after Monday's talks.
The secretary will visit the first autonomous Palestinian enclave of  Jericho on Tuesday, a Palestinian leader said.
"We expect Christopher on Tuesday morning in Jericho," said Saeb Erekat,  who lives in the West Bank town and has been appointed to the new Palestinian  Authority which will run Jericho and the Gaza Strip.
Christopher will be the first senior foreign dignitary to tour the town  since Israeli forces withdrew on Friday.
