Jacqueline Onassis, a woman who led the latter  half of her life secluded from the public eye, will rejoin slain President  John F. Kennedy, resting at one of the nation's most popular tourist sites.
Plans call for private funeral services Monday in New York with burial  following at Arlington National Cemetery, in Virginia, just outside  Washington, Onassis' spokeswoman said.
Onassis will lie next to JFK and the gravesites of two of their children,  a girl stillborn and a boy who died shortly after birth.
She will be buried on Monday afternoon after a morning funeral at St.  Ignatius of Loyola Roman Catholic Church in Manhattan, said spokeswoman Nancy  Tuckerman.
Onassis' body has remained in her Manhattan apartment since she died of  cancer Thursday night. She was 64.
Family members and friends including daughter Caroline Kennedy  Schlossberg, son John F. Kennedy Jr., and Onassis' long-time companion Maurice  Tempelsman, have come to the residence.
Though no formal ceremony is planned, friends and family gathered for an  informal wake this weekend.
Outside her Fifth Avenue apartment, the masses of people and mementos  which started earlier this week have continued to mount.
Delivery men carrying huge floral arrangements have been going in and out  of the residence.
Crowds have placed flowers around the building to bid farewell to the  former first lady Friday. They are the latest offerings of hundreds of flowers  which have built up around the entranceway.
Across the street dozens of people mingled, many red-eyed from crying.
"I'm going to wait for her to come out. I don't care what time she comes  out," said one mourner.
President Bill Clinton opened his weekly radio address paying special  tribute to Onassis.
"She and President Kennedy made people believe that change for the better  is possible, that public service is a noble calling, and that we ought to be  about the business of building our country up, not tearing it down or pulling  it apart," said Clinton.
