Many US-based human rights activists have  quietly abandoned efforts to persuade Washington to revoke China's privileged  trade status, concentrating instead on winning other sanctions to punish  Beijing.
A coalition of 11 labor and human rights organizations argued at a news  conference this week that China had failed to make progress on human rights  and had in fact regressed in some areas.
But the activists appeared to recognize that terminating China's most  favored nation status (MFN) would be politically difficult for President Bill  Clinton, and offered alternatives to put pressure on Beijing.
Clinton warned last year that any further renewal of MFN status would  depend on China showing "overall significant progress" in human rights issues,  and outlined seven areas in which such improvements should be observed. He  must announce a decision by June 3.
One leader of a Chinese dissident organization said targeted sanctions  against Chinese state-owned enterprises would send an important signal to the  authorities in Beijing, who he said are counting on Washington to yield to  business pressure to renew MFN.
"The key is not necessarily to stop each and every product that is touched  by the state sector, but rather to send an unequivocal message about the value  America places on freedom in China," said Haiching Zhao, president of the  National Council on Chinese Affairs.
Critics of targeted sanctions have argued that seeking to target goods  made by Chinese state- and army-owned enterprised would an administrative  nightmare. But Zhao said this problem could be avoided by raising tariffs on  certain categories of goods that are produced mainly by the state sector.
Historically, state-produced goods in China have included textiles,  pharmaceuticals, footwear, jewelry, electonics and beer and ores, although  activists said further analysis would be required to determine which items are  produced mostly by the state.
"This approach will target only the hard-liners responsible for visiting  misery and repression on the Chinese people," Zhao said. "It could well spark  an internal debate in China where the moderates and forces of greater openness  will have the upper hand.
"This targeted sanction will also protect private-sector interests in Hong  Kong, Taiwan and (joint ventures) whose trade can continue to help open China."
In contrast, he said, extending MFN with no sanctions would "unleash a new  wave of repression and fear" in China.
Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, cited an "overall  significant deterioration in an already abysmal human rights record" in China  and said Beijing had failed to meet Clinton's criteria for extending MFN.
But Roth appeared to acknowledge the difficulty in denying the trade  status to China entirely and urged that any sanctions be tough enough to send  a signal to Beijing.
"Anything less than broad economic sanctions, such as an across-the-board  tariff increase or one targeted to broad sectors of the Chinese economy would  be seen as the slap on the wrist that it would be," Roth said.
Asked whether he was abandoning efforts to revoke MFN for China, Roth said  he was simply offering a "feasible" means of punishing the Chinese regime.
US administration officials have said Secretary of State Warren  Christopher appears to favor a middle-ground approach to the MFN question with  targeted sanctions for certain goods.
Other human rights activists and critics of China continued to argue for a  hard-line approach.
US Representative David Bonior, who joined the human rights activists'  news conference, said revoking MFN would be "the best means at our disposal to  get results in China.
"We want a trading relationship with China, but only if they observe  internationally recognized standards of basic human rights, and only if they  abide by the code of basic human decency," Bonior said.
Bonior and other activists said Beijing has done little to end torture of  prisoners, arrests of dissidents, forced labor, religious persecution and  repression in Tibet.
"Just last week the Chinese government thumbed its nose at the  international community and said it would continue to crack down on dissidents  who commit the crime of exercising free speech," said Bonior.
Amnesty International spokeswoman Estrellita Jones said the organization  had no specific recommendation on MFN status for China, but maintained that  China had made "no substantive progress" in human rights and continued to  carry out executions for crimes such as embezzlement and theft and to detain  people arbitrarily.
