Athens warned Tirana Thursday it would take all  legal steps to protect the ethnic Greek minority in Albania, amid escalating  tensions between the two countries over the treatment and status of the  community.
Greek Foreign Minister Carolos Papoulias charged that Albanian  authorities, who last week charged a group of ethnic Greeks with secessionist  offences, had now arrested other members of the community.
Issuing a "stern warning" to Tirana, he termed the latest arrests "a more  general attempt by the Albanian authorities to terrorise" and force the  community to leave its homes in the south of the country.
Athens "will use all legal means at its disposal to protect the  minorities," Papoulias said, adding that he would inform UN Secretary General  Boutros Boutros-Ghali Thursday of the situation.
Ministry spokesman Constantine Bikas said Albanian authorities had  detained four ethnic Greeks on unspecified charges and were seeking to arrest  10 others in the southern town of Dervitsani.
There was no immediate reaction from Tirana.
Meanwhile Greek Conservative opposition leader Miltiades Evert warned  Thursday of an "armed conflict" on the Greece-Albania border if the situation  worsened.
"If Albania's attitude towards the Greek minority ... deteriorates, there  will be armed conflict between two different ethnic groups," he said, refering  to Greece's Orthodox community and Albanian Moslems.
The warnings came two days after Greece cancelled a planned meeting  between the countries' foreign ministers in protest at the charges against the  alleged secessionists.
The accused -- five according to Tirana and six according to Athens --  were charged last week with links with Greece's secret service, "expansionist  and annexationist" intentions, and illegal possession of weapons.
In a statement from the Albanian embassy in Athens, Tirana in turn accused  Greece of calling off the meeting for internal political reasons, charging  that
its neighbour had accepted the principle of such talks after the accused  were arrested in April.
