British Foreign Office minister Lynda Chalker said  Wednesday most of the outstanding issues between Hong Kong and China were  "technical not political" and could be solved with "goodwill and commonsense".
Chalker, speaking in a Lords debate, denied any "irreversible damage" had  been done to co-operation with China in the run-up to the 1997 handover of the  colony, despite fierce criticism by two former governors that governor Chris  Patten's democratic reforms were a serious mistake.
Speaking later, she also cautioned against the linkage of human rights  issues with designating China's trading status of a "most favoured nation",  saying the link could damage the Hong Kong economy.
Although the British government "shared the concerns expressed" about  China's record on human rights, she said there were "ways to go about  resolving this".
And she added Patten was trying to find the best way to secure human  rights in Hong Kong without installing a human rights commission, which she  said the Chinese government had pledged to abolish if it was created.
Earlier, she told peers there was "widespread support" for Patten who was  providing an "inspiring lead" to the territory.
Saying that Hong Kong's legislators should be allowed to decide how far  they wished democracy to proceed, she added: "We cannot force the Hong Kong  people to go further than they would wish... Nor would it be right for us to  oblige them to go less far."
But two former governors expressed doubts. David Wilson warned democracy  arrangements might not survive the 1997 transfer, while Murray MacLehose said  Patten's initiative "has proved a very serious mistake".
He said expectations of Hong Kong's people had been raised. "There may be  a mood of disillusion with Britain and with the British Government when it  becomes apparent that all these activities on the constitutional front sadly  have little practical content."
Leading Hong Kong citizen Lydia Dunn appealed to Britain and China to lift  the "log jam" in their disputes over Hong Kong.
She said "I have every confidence that throughout Hong Kong all people have  the desire and capacity to develop a healthy and trusting relationship with  their sovereign, China."
US President Bill Clinton has not yet indicated which way he will move on  the matter of Most Favoured Nation status, which grants favourable access to  the US market for Chinese goods.
But Washington has said renewal, which is to be decided by a June 3  deadline, is linked to progress in China's human rights record.
