New Zealand's awesomely beautiful South Island  high country may be on the verge of ecological collapse as a result of  rabbits, weeds, and ironically, the large flocks of sheep which used to  complete the once perfect agricultural scene.
A government review this week found 70 percent of high country "runs,"  huge sheep farms spread over six million hectares (14.8 million acres) of  tussock lands between the coastal plains and the snow covered Southern Alps,  are now marginal or simply not viable.
The runs figure large in the national mind: a major portion of the area is  named after the legendary outlaw James McKenzie, a Scotsman who last century  used to rustle sheep and hide them in a huge mountain basin. Today's MacKenzie  Plains, although spelt differently, are named after him.
A 19th century English novelist, Samuel Butler, gave the name Erowhon  (roughly "no where" backwards) to another high country farm.
High country author Neville Peat said on Radio New Zealand Sunday the high  country is "under siege."
"You have to feel for the farmers," he said. "The pastoral ethic, the idea  that sheep farming is supreme in the landscape has just about run its course."
Most of the land (20 percent of the South Island) is owned by the state,  which leases it to farmers.
Last year the farmers sought permission to introduce the myxoma virus and  a carrier flea as a way to control rabbits, first introduced here in 1864 and  now at plague proportions.
The government said no to the virus and instead commissioned a review of  high country farming released this week by Lands Minister Denis Marshall.
The review says the state should sell off most of the land, but that may  be difficult because it has found some of the high country has been so  degraded by overgrazing, rabbits and the invasive Hawkweed that no one is  likely to want it even as a gift.
Hawkweed, introduced just 40 years ago, has developed into a monoculture.  Of the 15 million hectares (37 million acres) of land in the South Island  where it occurs, over half a million hectares (1.2 million acres) are  dominated by the plant.
Hawkweed aggressively knocks out healthy native tussock as well as  non-native pasture grasses. Some runholders have had to reduce their stock  numbers by as much as 30 percent because of reduced pastoral productivity. But  the custom of burning tussock off has also destroyed the land.
Farmers put no fertiliser on 80 percent of the pastoral high country, and  grazing and burning of tussock deplete nutrients in the soil.
The review notes the declining levels of organic matter, nutrients and  acidity in the soil. If these continue to decline as they are doing, then the  ecosystem will collapse, it says.
