A central Pacific Island left a bleak moonscape  by strip mining has unveiled ambitious plans to turn itself back into the  Garden of Eden.
Four fifths of the 21 square kilometres (8.4 square miles) of Nauru have  been stripped by a century of phosphate mining, leaving what Nauruan special  presidential adviser Kinza Clodumar calls "a desert of jagged coral pinnacles,  uninhabitable, unusable, a ghostly array of tombstones."
Most of the phosphate was taken by colonial masters Australia, New Zealand  and Britain, but after independence in 1968 Nauruans continued the mining  through to today, and now only a few more years' supply remains.
In the process the mining has given the population of 7,000 here the  world's highest per capita income.
The usually secretive Nauruan Government has not revealed any detail of  rehabilitation plans, but Clodumar last month outlined to the Small Island  Developing States conference in Barbados their thinking. It has been published  in the latest issue of the Nauru Government Bulletin received here.
"Nauru was once a tropical paradise, a rainforest hung with fruits and  flowers, vines and orchids, an island so beautiful it was well known to  ancient mariners, who termed it Pleasant Island," Clodumar said. "Now, thanks  to human avarice, greed and short-sightedness, our island is mostly a  wasteland."
It was now proceeding with rehabilitation, the government said, trying to  "re-create the Garden of Eden that was once Nauru."
"The coral pinnacles will be dismantled, sawed and polished into beautiful  building material for homes and buildings," he said. "The coral pinnacles will  also be crushed to make land fill, land will be graded, catchment basins and  reservoirs build for the storage of our precious rainwater," the document said.
The plan calls for "areas of biological diversity, established at  strategically placed locations on the periphery of the island, expanding  gradually into the rain forest of tomorrow.
"Horticultural stations will be built at each of these strategic locations  to nurse seedlings into trees, trees into forests.... Pawpaw and pandanus,  beach almond and banana, coconut, orchids, vines and the ubiquitous tomano  tree... all will bloom again.
"Our rain forest will live again, and with it, the myriad of birds and  animals, and the coral reef that is the cousin of the forest...."
Nauruans have paid more than an environmental price for their wealth. They  are cursed with crippling rates of diabetes, cancer and hypertension as a  result of an unrelieved diet of processed western food.
Alcoholism and consequent road deaths are common. Life expectancy is 55  years.
"Our indigenous culture, tied to the land and surrounding sea, is largely  gone, devastated along with the rain forest and the reef, Clodumar said, but  Nauruans will "restore and define the new Nauruan culture".
Nauru had launched a suit against Australia in the International Court of  Justice, seeking between 72 million and 120 million Australian dollars (51 to  86 million US dollars) for damage caused to the island by colonial mining. But  last year Canberra settled out of court, agreeing to pay 107 million  Australian dollars.
