A strategic town west of Kabul has been overrun by  forces loyal to Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani, the defence ministry  said Wednesday.
But rival factions denied that Maidan Shahr, which is located 30  kilometers (19 miles) from the capital, had been captured Tuesday in a  combined operation by the defence ministry and allied forces of the  Ittihad-i-Islami faction
Defence ministry officials said the town was taken early in the day in a  four-hour offensive during which warplanes assisted the ground forces.
Maidan Shahr, in Wardak province, "is totally in our hands," said Muhammad  Agha Ghul, a commander from the Ittihad-I-Islami faction, which is led by  Rabbani ally Rasul Sayyaf.
A defence ministry spokesman said all roads linking the capital with the  western regions of Wardak, Paktia and Kandahar were open, restoring links with  "our powerful friends" in those areas.
Meanwhile, a radio station run by Rabbani's rival, Prime Minister  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said Tuesday that Hezb forces loyal to him had lifted a  blockade of routes into the capital.
"We welcome the move and hope it has no connection with the last military  development in Maidan Shahr," said presidential spokesman Abdul Aziz Murad.
The economic blockade had been in force since January, when Uzbek warlord  General Abdul Rashid Dostam, in collaboration with the Hezb, started a drive  to oust Rabbani from power.
In Pakistan, Hematyar's personal representative, Mangal Hussain, said  Maidan Shahr and the whole Wardak province "remains under the firm control" of  the Supreme Coordination Council, the anti-Rabbani alliance.
Hussain said there had been some attacks by the Ittihad-i-Islami and  Shoora Nazar forces of Rabbani's Jamiat-i-Islami faction on Monday, but "these  were repulsed, inflicting losses of men and material on the opponents."
He confirmed that the Supreme Coordination Council had opened the routes  to allow Kabul citizens to get essential items in view of the the "holy days  of Eid," a Moslem festival at the weekend.
Travellers arriving here from the north reported aerial movements by planes  from the pro-Rabbani forces at Pul-i-Khumri, a strategic city 260 kilometers  (160 miles) away, which is controlled by the Afghan Ismaeli sect, a Dostam  ally.
They said aerial bombardments in recent days had resulted in considerable  casualties.
