Spanish golfer Seve Baellesteros has been offered  the chance of a face-to-face meeting with Ryder Cup Committee officials to  repeat the claims of bribery that led to him resigning the Committee at the  weekend.
European tour boss Ken Schofield said: "I rather doubt that these  allegations are true. But our job is to get right down to the facts."
Ballesteros claimed Sunday that the Spanish Club Valderrama, which is  favourite to stage the match, had offered him one million dollars to support  their bid.
He said in a statement: "I do't like to be bought and one can only  question if the other gentlemen of the committee have received the same kind  of offer."
Schofield said Monday: "We have said to him that if his genuine feelings  are that there has been anything untoward, either in his own dealings with any  venue or any concerns regarding his former colleagues on the cup committee, he  should bring them forward to us prior to our meeting at Wentworth next  Wednesday."
It is then that the decision on where to hold the match is likely to be  taken.
Schofield declared: "We have had an association with Valderrama since the  arrival on tour of the Volvo Masters from 1988. I can assure you that all our  arrangements with that club and all the tournaments we have had there are  based on sound business principles.
"I don't think they really have to try to buy the Ryder Cup. They have a  quality venue -- one of about seven we are still closely reviewing."
Following Ballesteros' allegations, prominent British businessman Sir Ian  MacLaurin, a close associate of Valderrama owner Jaime Ortiz-Patino, released  to Schofield all the exchanges the club has had with the Spanish star.
"The evidence of these is that any offer made was a normal business  proposition -- and that it was made both before it was decided the Ryder Cup  would go to Spain and long before Seve became a committee member last  December," stated Schofield.
Ballesteros, who wants the match to be played at Novo Sancti Petri in  Cadiz rather than a club he regards as "the most elitist in the world," said  the offer took the form of the sale of plots of land and a percentage of green  fees.
Other members of the committee reacted furiously to Ballesteros' comment  about whether they had received similar offers.
