Fighting kept up through the night into early  Friday in the Rwandan capital Kigali, much of it around the airport where the  United Nations has stopped flying in any planes, a UN spokesman said.
The sporadic artillery and mortar exchanges between government troops and  the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) were less intense than on Thursday,  which saw the heaviest fighting in Kigali in 10 days, said Abdul Kabia,  spokesman for the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda (UNAMIR).
Shells fell throughout the night near Amahoro stadium, where several  thousand people fleeing the country's ethnic bloodbath have sought refuge,  though there were no reported injuries, Kabia said, contacted by telephone..
At least 30 patients, wounded survivors of Rwanda's killing fields, died  in their beds when shells slammed into the crowded Kigali general hospital  Thursday during violent fighting in several city districts.
The UN headquarters was also hit though no one was hurt.
The United Nations has been trying to broker a ceasefire between majority  Hutu government forces and the Tutsi minority-dominated rebel Front before the  planned arrival of the new UN troops.
UN spokesmen have said they were hoping for a response Friday from the  government to UN proposals to establish a neutral zone at the airport, to  allow flights to land without hindrance.
Despite the battles, the United Nations went ahead with plans to send in  thousands of UN peacekeeping reinforcements.
According to Kabia, Ghana confirmed that it would send some 500 men to  boost its battalion of 800 troops already stationed in Kigali.
Negotiations with other countries to bring in equipment needed by the UN  peacekeepers are "well advanced," he added without giving details.
UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali also plans to send special  envoy Iqbal Riza from the UN peacekeeping operations department to Kigali to  meet with the belligerents to discuss terms of the "new UNAMIR mandate" and  try to get their "cooperation," Kabia said without specifying any date.
The UN Security Council voted Tuesday to create a new UN peacekeeping  operation in Rwanda by sending 5,500 troops to stem the bloodletting but its  shape is still unclear.
The world body has also had trouble persuading member states to contribute  troops in Rwanda after its efforts so far have failed to stem the six weeks of  factional fighting and massacres that are estimated to have left up to 500,000  dead.
Jacques-Roger Booh-Booh, the UN secretary general's special representative  to Rwanda, will stay on in his post but for the moment handle consultations  with regional governments and countries taking part in the UNAMIR effort.
The rebel RPF has repeatedly demanded that Booh-Booh be replaced, accusing  him of lacking objectivity in the crisis in the central African highland  nation.
The rebel military chief Paul Kagame said last week he would refuse to  talk to Booh-Booh.
The mainly Tutsi rebels refuse to recognise the government, which was  formed after the death of president Juvenal Habyarimana in a mysterious plane  crash on April 6.
Most of those slaughtered have been Tutsis or moderate Hutus opposed to  Hutu hardliners.
