A prominent Libyan banker who quit his post  under US pressure in connection with the Lockerbie plane bombing has been  named Arab banker of the year.
Abdullah al-Saudi, former chief executive of the Arab Banking Corporation  (AFC), was selected the "Arab banking personality for 1993" by the Arab Banks  Union (ABU) at its annual conference in Vienna last week.
"This son of Tripoli deserves with merit the title.
"We have known him as one of the pioneers of the Arab banking movement as  he has founded one of the biggest Arab financial institutions," ABU chairman  Mahmud Abdul Aziz said at a function in the Austrian capital.
"He was faithful in his actions, even in his resignation. He preferred to  sacrifice for the ship he has built and lift the ban on the institution which  he founded and loved," the Egyptian banker said.
Saudi resigned earlier this year apparently under pressure from ABC  shareholders to persuade the United States to remove a boycott of the  institution as part of international sanctions against Libya.
The sanctions were imposed by the UN Security Council two years ago after  Libya refused to hand over two suspects in the 1988 bombing of a US airliner  over the Scottish town of Lockerbie.
ABC, based in Manama, is owned jointly by the Libyan central bank, the  Kuwaiti finance ministry, the state-run Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and  other Arab individual and institutional investors.
It was set up in 1980 and is now the biggest Arab financial institution,  with a paid up capital of one billion dollars and assets of around 19 billion  dollars.
Saudi admitted in an address at the Vienna function, a copy of which was  obtained by AFP, that he had resigned under pressure although he did not  specify who forced him.
"I quit the institution which I have given everything not because of  mismanagement or personal misconduct," he said.
"How can we accept sacking of a person by a state to which he does not  belong and works for a company which does not have the nationality of that  state?" he asked, in reference to the United States.
