A goldminer was killed Monday in fighting  between ANC supporters and Zulu Inkatha rivals at the Western Areas mine east  of Johannesburg, mine owners Johannesburg Consolidated Investment (JCI) said.
The death brought to eight the number of miners killed in strife at the  mine between backers of the Inkatha Freedom Party and South African President  Nelson Mandela's African National Congress (ANC) since April 17, when the  campaign for historic all-race elections was still under way.
JCI said that about 80 percent of miners worked as normal on Monday, but  several sources said there was further violence.
"Mine management and union representatives are considering all possible  options in order to insure the safety of all employees especially, but not  only, underground," the company said in a statement.
JCI chairman Kennedy Maxwell said management staff had Friday mediated an  agreement between the rival factions, providing for a code of conduct, a panel  of enquiry into the causes of the conflict and on-site security.
Meanwhile, around 9,000 miners returned to work Monday at South Africa's  Kloof gold mine near Carletonville, 50 kilometres (30 miles) west of here,  mine owners Gold Fields said.
The workers, who staged an 11-day strike to protest against the dismissal  of a union activist, decided to return to work after a meeting Sunday  addressed by National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) president J Motlatsi.
Gold Fields said Sunday in a statement that the miners had agreed to seek  "alternative means" to sort out their grievance and that the first batch would  return to work on the Sunday night shift.
The mine dismissed NUM branch chairman Jackson Mafika after a disciplinary  inquiry found that he had threatened fellow employees for not taking part in a  strike in March.
The strikers Thursday defied a court order declaring the strike unlawful  and ordering them back to work.
Gold Fields late last week estimated production losses during the strike  at around 25 million rands (6.9 million dollars).
