Bosnian leaders reacted angrily Saturday to US  backing for a European peace plan giving 51 percent of Bosnia-Hercegovina to a  Bosnian Croat-Moslem federation and 49 percent to Serbs.
Bosnian Serbs, who control over 70 pecent of the territory, for their part  rejected giving as much as 51 percent to the Bosnian Croats and Moslems.
Mustafa Bijedic, Bosnian ambassador in Geneva where the leading powers  also including Russia took their united stand late Friday, told AFP that  America had "now joined with Europe in rewarding fascist Serb aggression".
He said there were no moral or international legal grounds for giving 50  percent of a state to "an aggressor which has killed one quarter of a million  people".
Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic, who also condemned the new  US-European-Russian stand, meanwhile met in Geneva Saturday with US Secretary  of State Warren Christopher, a US diplomat said.
The Bosnians had been hoping for Washington's support in their bid to  increase the territory to be apportioned to an agreed Bosnian Croat-Moslem  federation from 51 percent to 58 percent.
The Bosnia ambassador warned that such reward for Belgrade-backed Serb  aggression paved the way for similar support to dissatisfied minorities  elsewhere, such as Russians in Latvia and Ukraine or Hungarians in Romania.
"It could happen anywhere in the world," Bijedic said, but added that  there was "still a chance" that Europe would "think about what could happen"  and "not produce a time bomb in the Balkans".
The Bosnian Serbs Saturday said the Croats and Moslem Bosnians could not  have the 51 percent the European plan would give them, the Bosnian Serb news  agency reported.
Momcilo Krajisnik, president of the Bosnian Serbs' self-styled parliament,  said they in no way had more than the Serbs "as they are neither moral nor  military victors and moreover do not possess such a proportion of territory".
"We believe that one has to take into account the situation on the ground,  namely that the Serbs control 73 per cent of the territory and that they are  owners of 64 percent," he was quoted as saying.
