European Union ministers making a flying visit to  Algeria on Monday urged the country to find a political solution to its  violent divisions and backed government efforts at economic reform.
The "troika" -- Belgian Foreign Minister Willy Claes and the Greek and  German deputy foreign ministers, Georges Papandreou and Dieter Kastrup -- were  due to leave Monday evening after talks with Prime Minister Mokdad Sifi and  key economic ministers on possible new credits.
In a press conference Papandreou, whose country currently heads the  European Union's revolving presidency, supported the Algerian government's  controversial to introduce a market economy and launch a dialogue with the  opposition.
He said the EU backed "the government's efforts to hold a dialogue with  all groups that respect democracy and reject violence. We believe a solution  can only be found through dialogue and are happy to confirm that its efforts  are sincere, as shown during our discussions."
Conflict between Moslem militant guerrillas and the security forces has  claimed more than 3,000 lives since January 1992, when authorities cancelled  the second round of a general election that the fundamentalist Islamic  Salvation Front (FIS) was poised to win.
Papandreou confirmed that the EU had released a second credit tranche of  150 million Ecus (175 million dollars), linked to an International Monetary  Fund (IMF) structual readjustment agreement.
Algiers, grappling with an estimated 26 billion dollar foreign debt,  signed the accord early last month and devalued its currency by nearly 50  percent to qualify for the billion-dollar loan.
An additional 200 million Ecu credit will be discussed by the EU's  executive European Commission, said Papandreou, describing recent steps as "an  important framework confirming the government's will to pursue economic  reforms."
Finance Minister Ahmed Benbitour, who took part in Monday's discussions,  was due to visit Paris Tuesday to ask the Paris Club of creditor nations to  reschedule the country's debt, officials said.
He told national television late Sunday he hoped to conclude two  agreements for 1994 and 1995.
