Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said he would  question PLO leader Yasser Arafat Wednesday over his alleged call for a holy  war to free Jersualem, amid Israeli warnings the comment could affect the  peace process.
The Palestine Liberation Organization leader flew into Oslo at midday --  where Peres was expected later -- but refused to answer reporters' questions,  Norwegian radio said.
It said Arafat moved away from journalists at Oslo's military airport when  some of them asked if he had really made a call for a holy war last week when  he was in Johannesburg for the inauguration of South African President Nelson  Mandela.
Peres and Arafat are scheduled to take part in ceremonies Wednesday in  honor of Norway's part in helping reach a Mideast peace settlement. Oslo  hosted secret meetings in 1993 that started off contacts between the two  parties after 45 years of war.
The official program issued by the Norwegian Foreign Ministry made no  mention of a talks between the two leaders Wednesday.
But Israeli radio quoted Peres as saying Wednesday morning as he left Tel  Aviv airport that he would raise with Arafat his reported call for a holy war  against Israel.
On Tuesday, the radio broadcast a speech which it said Arafat had made on  May 10 in a mosque in Johannesburg calling on Moslems to "take part in a Jihad  (holy war) to liberate Jerusalem."
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin warned on Tuesday that if the  statements were confirmed, "it's a serious violation of the written  commitments and calls into question the peace process."
Rabin warned at a press conference with US Secretary of State Warren  Christopher that Israel would "not accept such violations and continue the  process." Christopher said he "endorsed" Rabin's statement.
Wednesday's official agenda said Arafat and Peres would take part in the  inauguration of a sculpture offered to the Norwegian people for their  contribution to the Middle East peace process.
The sculpture, by American artist Tony Smith and baptised "Marriage," is a  gift from the Jimmy Carter Foundation for Human Rights, named after the former  US president who has been in Oslo since Sunday.
A 100,000-dollar check from the same organization will also be awarded to  an independent Norwegian research institute, the FAFO, which acted as  intermediary for the secret contacts here between Palestinians and Israelis.
The meetings led to the signature on September 13, 1993 in Washington of a  PLO-Israeli agreement, officially called the Declaration of Principles on  limited Palestinian autonomy.
On Wednesday, eight months later, the Israeli military administration  completed its evacuation of the Gaza strip and Jericho on the West Bank after  27 years of occupation.
Arafat and Peres have not met since the signing on May 4 in Cairo of the  accord on the implementation of autonomy for Gaza and Jericho.
