Chinese dissidents in the United States  generally favor a partial withdrawal of Beijing's privileged trading status  targeting state-owned firms, not complete revocation, dissident leaders said  here Thursday.
There are differing views among the dissident community in the United  States on the best way to advance human rights in China, but "an overwhelming  majority do agree on the middle policy of targeted revocation," Zhao Haiching,  the president of the National Council for Chinese Affairs (NCCA) told a press  conference.
China has clearly not made the significant overall progress on human  rights which President Bill Clinton said last year would be needed if he were  to extend Beijing's most favored nation (MFN) trading status beyond June 3,  Zhao said.
But withdrawing MFN altogether would make everyone suffer for the  government's intransigence, said Zhao, whose group coordinates dissident  groups in the United States pushing for human rights and democracy in China.
Revoking MFN just for products which come mainly from state-owned  enterprises would continue US pressure on the government to improve its human  rights record, while not punishing the private sector and market economy which  everybody wants to promote, Zhao said.
Zhao also said it was the United States's own fault that its decision to  firmly link MFN to human rights this year had not borne more fruit.
Mixed signals from Washington had convinced China "that all they have to  do to win MFN is play tough, and they have been doing so," Zhao said.
Economic officials in the government made it clear early that revoking  human rights would be an economic disaster for the United States.
Chinese dissident Wang Juntao, jailed for his part in the 1989  pro-democracy movement which was crushed in the Tiananmen Square massacre, is  in Washington this week meeting with lawmakers and US officials.
Wang said that his release was a miracle, but urged the international  community not to forget all the political prisoners still behind bars in China.
Wang was to meet with Clinton's national security advisor Anthony Lake  Thursdsay and Assistant Secretary of State Winston Lord Friday.
