British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said here  Monday that he had received assurances from Russia that it would not intervene  to support Crimea's drive to secede from Ukraine.
Hurd, who discussed the Crimean crisis during talks Sunday and Monday with  Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, said: "I am satisfied that Russia has  no policy of intervention on this issue."
"We believe as the Russian government believes that Crimea is a part of  Ukraine and the sovereignty of Ukraine over Crimea is not in question," Hurd  told a news conference.
"Any dispute is a matter for the government of Ukraine to settle with  those concerned," he added.
The parliament of Crimea, a predominantly Russian-populated peninsula on  the Black Sea, sparked a major political crisis Friday by voting to restore a  1992 constitution, a move viewed by Kiev as tantamount to independence.
The Ukrainian parliament responded by giving the local legislature up  until Monday to reverse its decision.
Hurd said that the conflict should be resolved in line with principles of  the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, which exclude the use of  force, and stated that there should be "a dialogue as to what form of autonomy  Crimea should have" within Ukraine.
Ukraine has appealed to the United Nations for assistance in resolving the  crisis which Russian officials have warned could degenerate into war.
Hurd said he would discuss the appeal with Ukrainian officials during his  stopover in Kiev Tuesday, adding that if Ukraine asked for assistance from the  international community, he was "sure it would be considered."
His comments came as Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin held talks  with his Ukrainian counterpart Efim Zviagilsky in Moscow to defuse the tension  in the secessionist republic.
The British official arrived in the northern city of Murmansk Sunday and  was to meet with President Boris Yeltsin and Chernomyrdin on Tuesday.
He said he would present the Russian leader with an official letter from  Queen Elizabeth II accepting his invitation to visit Russia by the end of this  year but a date has yet to be set for the visit.
Hurd, who discussed the NATO Partnership for Peace program with Kozyrev and  parliamentary speaker Ivan Rybkin, also said that he favored a "no suprises,  no vetos" approach to a special status for Russia under the program.
"There should be no veto on policies of NATO or the EU (European Union)  but we should avoid surprises" as over the NATO decision in Bosnia, he said,  referring to the NATO bombing of the Moslem enclave of Gorazde last month.
Russia was angered that it had not been consulted before the decision to  launch NATO air raids on the Moslem enclave was taken.
Hurd added that he hoped a partnership agreement between Russia and the  European Union would be signed in June and called for further work in  scrapping trade barriers between the EU and Russia.
