Canadian exporters are missing out on growing  opportunities in both Asia and Latin America according to a report published  Tuesday by a leading economic think-tank.
The Conference Board of Canada warns that Canadian exporters are relying  too much on the traditional, but stagnating, markets of Europe and the United  States.
Its report -- "Profiting in the Pacific Rim: Can Canada capture its share"  -- points out: "Long-term prospects for significant export growth in  traditional markets, such as Western Europe and even the United States, look  disturbingly slim.
"Stubbornly high unemployment, sluggish real income growth, high public  debt, ageing populations and, in some cases, an increasing penchant for  protectionism, all look set to dampen demand growth in traditional export  markets."
In contrast, the report says: "The developing countries of the Pacific Rim  are on the verge of unprecedented consumer and construction booms, which will  present enormous opportunities for Canadian exporters of both goods and  services."
Jointly, according to The Conference Board, the Asia Pacific region and  Pacific Latin American countries have a combined population of nearly two  billion and a market worth 5.5 trillion dollars (US) and "the region's  purchasing power is increasing at dramatic rates."
The report concludes: "Over the longer term, the rapidly expanding  countries of the Pacific Rim will provide Canada with its best hope for new  markets and sustained growth."
But, The Conference Board warns, the task will not be easy nor will it be  quickly accomplished.
"Canada's market share in the region (except for the United States) has  slipped in recent years," the report notes.
"This trend implies that Canadian exporters are missing out on  opportunities in Asian and Latin American markets."
In a region-by-region breakdown, The Conference Board notes:
- In Asia's newly industrialized economies (Hong Kong, South Korea,  Singapore and Taiwan), "growth has become less reliant on exports and driven  more by personal consumption and investment within their domestic markets,  particularly in South Korea and Taiwan;"
- Pacific Latin America (Chile, Mexico and Peru) has "abandoned the  inward-oriented, import substitution model of economic development and has  adopted an outward-oriented, export-led strategy similar to those that have  proved so successful in the Asia Pacific region."
But Canadian exporters have shown few signs that they are prepared to cash  in on the growth opportunities in Latin America and the developing Asian  nations.
While total Canadian merchandise exports more than doubled between 1980  and 1993, from 76 billion dollars (55 billion US at 1994 exchange rates) to  187 billion dollars (135 billion US) and total exports to the Pacific Rim  soared from 58 billion dollars (42 billion US) to 168 billion dollars (119  billion US), the increases were due mainly to trade with the United States.
"The proportion of merchandise exports going to non-US Pacific Rim  countries actually fell from 13 percent to nine percent between 1980 and  1993," said The Conference Board.
