A visit by the leader of "Her Majesty's Loyal  Opposition" to a foreign capital usually sparks little interest back home in  Canada.
But the current visit by Lucien Bouchard to Paris has caused a furore from  Canada's Atlantic to Pacific coasts.
For Bouchard, Canada's former ambassador to France and a one-time close  aide and personal friend of former prime minister Brian Mulroney, is now  seeking what he calls "sovereignty" for his native French-speaking province of  Quebec.
And it was clear this week that he was visiting Paris primarily to drum up  French support for an eventual independent nation of Quebec.
Canadian television, both French- and English-language, has been leading  many of its news bulletins with shots of Bouchard being officially welcomed at  the French Embassy by current Ambassador Benoit Bouchard.
After a distinctly frosty handshake, Benoit Bouchard -- who was a  colleague of Lucien Bouchard in the Mulroney cabinet before Lucien Bouchard  quit to form his separatist Bloc Quebecois -- the ambassador is seen abruptly  walking away. There were definitely no smiles accompanying the handshake.
Back in Canada, the visible displeasure of the ambassador to Paris is now  being reflected with vehement political rhetoric with one member of parliament  accusing Lucien Bouchard of treachery, two English-speaking premiers warning  him that any carve-up of Canada will provoke a long and bitter squable, and  another premier saying he wants Bouchard to keep out of his province.
Bob Mills, a member of parliament from Calgary and a member of the  populist Reform Party which has been accused of being anti-francophone,  complained that the separatist leader "is portraying an image of a country  (Canada) in crisis, which will have serious economic consequences in  international markets and will affect all Canadians."
Mills complained that Bouchard was deliberately trying to alienate  anglophone Canada to help his drive toward Quebec independence.
"It's a plot and is traitorous," complained Mills. "He should be forced to  give up his position as leader of the opposition (in the federal parliament)."
British Colombia Premier Mike Harcourt warned that his province and Quebec  currently had the choice of being "natural allies" or enemies.
"If they decided to separate," Harcourt said of Quebec, "we wouldn't be  the best of friends, we'd be the worst of enemies."
Saskatchewan Premier Roy Romanow said he agreed with Harcourt and warned  that if Quebec were to seek independence it could not expect to keep all of  its northern territory ceded to it by the federal government early this  century.
And federal Indian Affairs Minister Ron Irwin told a meeting of Quebec  aboriginals that, if Quebec separated from Canada, Indian communities in  Quebec would have the option of remaining Canadian.
On the Atlantic coast, New Brunswick Premier Frank McKenna said he wanted  Bouchard to cancel a planned visit to New Brunswick, Canada's only officially  bilingual province. McKenna fears that Bouchard might want to extend his  separatist dream to the francophone community of New Brunswick.
All this prompted Bouchard's fellow-separatist, Jacques Parizeau, leader  of the Parti Quebecois, to retort: "A great deal of your ill will or hollering  has absolutely no legal or constitutional basis. So therefore, as premiers,  keep your shirts on."
Foreign Minister Andre Ouellet, like Bouchard a Quebecker, immediately  retaliated at an apparent suggestion by French socialist leader Michel Rocard,  that Paris would help an independent Quebec financially.
Ouellet pointed out that Rocard, a likely presidential candidate to  succeed Francois Mitterrand, did not speak for the French Government.
Quebec is scheduled to have a provincial general election before November  with the Parti Quebecois currently the favorite to win.
Parizeau has promised that if his separatist party wins, it will hold a  referendum on the sovereignty question within 10 months.
