Southern armored forces drove back a lightning  northern advance in a tank battle at this village on Tuesday just 20  kilometers (12 miles) from the key southern city of Aden.
Two northern tank crewmen were killed and 12 others taken prisoner, while  one villager was also killed and 1O wounded, according to a toll given by a  reporter from official Aden television at the scene, Sakkaf al-Qafd.
A T-54 tank was overturned at the entrance of Waht, while black smoke  billowed from three other tanks outside Waht, in south Yemen's Lahij province.
The main road was littered with empty shell casings and several houses  were destroyed.
Southern soldiers and militiamen backed by Mil Mi-8 helicopters raked the  area with rocket and automatic weapons fire, while northern artillery on the  nearby Sobbeiha mountains provided cover for the retreating tanks.
The fighting in the four-week civil war flared as the UN Security Council  was due to debate the conflict later in the day.
Troops loyal to Yemen's northern president Ali Abdallah Saleh have opened  up two new fronts to the north and northwest of Aden, which southern leader  Ali Salem al-Baid proclaimed the capital of an independent state on May 21.
Saleh told officers in Sanaa that their troops had launched "the last  decisive battle against the band of rebels and separatists." A northern  spokesman said Waht had fallen to northern forces.
But the attack on Waht was repelled and a military spokesman here said  Baid's forces had also "countered" a thrust begun Monday on other Lahij  villages 105 kilometers (62 miles) to the northwest.
Saleh's forces, who were "indiscriminately shelling schools and public  buildings" in those villages, suffered "heavy losses" in attacks by southern  warplanes, he added.
The north launched the new attack "after its failure" at the southern  Al-Anad air base 60 kilometers north of Aden, and Bab al-Mandab/Kharaz, 120  kilometers (72 miles) west of here.
Correspondents also reported heavy fighting on another new front 60  kilometres (37 miles) west of here, with northern tanks, hidden in sand dunes,  firing shells at southern forces, who were firing multiple rocket launchers.
The two sides were also fighting on Tuesday along the Abyan front and in  the southern oil region of Shabwa, both east of Aden.
Several MiG-21 fighter jets were spotted taking off from Aden airport.
The UN Security Council was to discuss the war that broke out on May 5  after a nine-month dispute between Saleh and his vice president Baid over  sharing power in Yemen -- the product of a 1990 merger between South and North  Yemen.
Baid proclaimed a breakaway Yemen Democratic Republic on May 21, but it  has not been recognised internationally.
The government of united Yemen in Sanaa has sent envoys to New York to  take part in the Security Council debate even though it says it amounts to  interference in the country's internal affairs.
Saudi Arabia and its Gulf neighbor Oman have each offered the United  Nations proposals on how to settle the conflict.
Abdel Aziz Abdel Ghani, one of the northern envoys, said in Amman on  Tuesday while en route to New York that the decision to hold a council debate  without consulting Sanaa "set a dangerous precedent."
"The unity of Yemen is a reality and nobody can make this country go back  to the situation that existed before the declaration of its unity" in May  1990, he said.
The south has welcomed UN efforts to bring about a ceasefire.
The Yemeni government appealed Monday for urgent international aid to help  victims of the war, the UN representative in Sanaa, Ouni al-Hani said.
It requested tents for an estimated 100,000 persons who have been  displaced by the fighting along with medicine and food, adding it would be  made available to "all areas of Yemen," he said.
The government has also appealed for help in rebuilding public facilities  damaged by the fighting.
