The drachma closed little changed here on Monday  after the Bank of Greece had increased its overdraft rate for banks by three  points to 33 percent to defend the currency.
The drachma closed at 148.08 to the mark against 147.70 at the close on  Friday and was fixed at 247.97 to the dollar against 247.10. It was unchanged  against the French franc at 43.19 to the franc.
Dealers said that the central bank had not intervened.
The head of the foreign exchange department for Citibank in Greece, Iorgos  Kondoyannis, said: "The rush on the drachma did not materialise and the  authorities are using the weapon of interest rates." This made the cost of  speculation against the drachma "prohibitive" he said.
The bank, announcing the three-point rate rise on Monday, said that it  would charge an additional 0.4 points per day and that it was increasing its  re-discount rate from 21.5 percent to 22.5 percent and its Lombard rate for  some operations from 25.5 percent to 26.5 percent.
The reference rate on the interbank market had risen to 75 percent early  on Monday. Market sources said that this had been engineered by the big  nationalised banks which had acted on discreet instructions from the central  bank.
On Friday the interbank rate had been 23 percent. The governor of the  central bank, Ionnis Boutos, has said that he was determined to use interest  rates to defend the currency.
Speculation against the drachma emerged suddenly last week. On Saturday  the socialist government surprised markets by deciding to bring forward by six  weeks to Monday the total liberation of capital flows.
The government said during the weekend that it would not devalue the  drachma which is the only currency within the European union which has never  joined the European monetary system (EMS). Greek and foreign banks have argued  that the currency is over valued by 10 percent to 30 percent.
One European expert said: "But it can count only on interest rates and the  sanction of market will not wait." He held that the currency would probably be  devalued in the short term, but the Citibank expert held that it would not be  devalued before the elections to the European parliament in June.
Dealers here said that last week the central bank had had to spend 600  million to one billion dollars to support the drachma but that its reserves  amounted to only nine billion dollars.
This explained why the government had acted urgently in an attempt to  impress the markets by advancing the liberalisation of capital flows.
