Member states of the Black Sea Economic  Cooperation Region meeting in Tbilisi Tuesday shifted their focus from  economic to security issues to try and bring about peace and stability in the  troubled region.
Ostensibly an economic grouping to promote free trade and market reforms,  the organisation's 11 members - Turkey, Russia, Ukraine, Romania, Bulgaria,  Greece, Albania, Moldova, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan - met in the  Georgian capital to try and create "a mechanism for the regulation of the  region's many conflicts," according to Sergei Kyiashko, head of the Ukrainian  delegation.
The regional peace initiative was discussed under the auspices of the  Black Sea Economic Cooperation Region's inter-parliamentary Legal and  Political Affairs Committee.
Attention was focused in particular on the six year-old conflict over the  disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, situated inside Azerbaijan but inhabited  by an Armenian majority.
The head of the Armenian delegation, David Vardanyan, said that "there can  be no economic cooperation until there is peace in the region" and stressed  that "all possibilities must be used" in attempting to bring peace to the  enclave.
But the head of the Azerbaijani delegation, Mir-Gamza Efendiyev, was more  pessimistic, telling AFP: "The CSCE's (Conference for Security and Cooperation  in Europe) Minsk Group have spent many months trying to bring about peace in  Karabakh - I do not see how one meeting in Tbilisi will solve the conflict."
Turkey, which founded the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Region in June  1992, has tried to concentrate the grouping's efforts solely on economic  issues.
But under pressure from other heads of state with immediate security  concerns, such as the embattled Georgian leader, Eduard Shevardnadze, the  organisation has taken on a more political colouring.
Actual and potential problems in the Black Sea region include the dispute  between Albania and Serbia over Kosovo, troubled relations between Greece and  Turkey, tension between Russia, Moldova, Ukraine and Romania over the  self-styled Slav republic of Trans-Dnestr, the tug-of-war between Russia and  Ukraine over Crimea, the bloody Kurdish struggle in southeastern Turkey, two  separatist conflicts inside Georgia and the war over Nagorno-Karabakh.
The Black Sea initiative comes as a counterweight, albeit small, to  growing Russian influence in the settlement of conflicts in the former Soviet  Union, Moscow's attempt at brokering a ceasefire agreement this week between  Armenia and Azerbaijan being the latest example.
The Black Sea Economic Cooperation Region's General assembly, which has  still to settle differences in its attempts to forge a customs union  throughout the region, will convene in Bucharest on June 20.
