Russia is heading for massive participation in an  east-west programme of military partnership even though it has been refused  formal political links with NATO, diplomats said here Wednesday.
They were speaking after a meeting of defence ministers of the North  Atlantic Treaty Organisation with their counterparts from the countries of the  former Soviet bloc plus Finland, Sweden and Slovenia.
During the meeting, Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev presented   Russia's proposals for participating in NATO's partnership for peace (PFP)  programme of military cooperation with its former Cold War adversaries.
A well-placed NATO source said the Russian minister proposed levels of  participation proportional to Moscow's military weight, indicating an  enthusiasm exceeding all expectations.
"We thought (Russia) was only prepared to dabble its toe in the PFP, but  Grachev indicated it was ready to dive in," the NATO source said.
But Grachev also called for a formal system of consultations between  Moscow and NATO on European and world security.
He reiterated Russia's wish for regular and automatic meetings with NATO  at all political and military levels.
The Atlantic alliance is resisting any formal commitment to such  consultations.
"NATO is not ready or willing to give any droit de regard (right of  influence) or even worse a veto over its activities," NATO deputy secretary  general Sergio Balanzino told a press conference.
Grachev stressed that Russia was not insisting on the consultations as a  condition for joining in the PFP. He gave no date for signing the partnership,  although Russia is expected to do so by mid-year.
Balanzino, the chairman of Wednesday's meeting, suggested that NATO was  willing to accept the evolution of a "constructive and substantial dialogue"  if Russia embraced the military partnership.
But NATO rejected a treaty formalising bilateral relations with Russia,  although it did not rule out a less formal declaration when Moscow signs the  PFP.
NATO sees the PFP as a web of military cooperation between former Cold War  adversaries aimed at preventing conflict. Russia in the past has shown more  interest in having a political relationship with NATO.
Grachev's response to the PFP programme indicated interest in military  training and exercises, plus peace-keeping and search-and-rescue missions.
NATO countries also indicated interest in more frequent security dialogue  between NATO and Russia -- particularly in areas not dealt with in the PFP  such as the conflict in Bosnia-Hercegovina or the nuclear arena.
This could include controls on the spread of nuclear weapons, the  dismantling of weapons and the conversion of Russian weapons factories for  civilian use -- goals supported by Russia and NATO.
US Defence Secretary William Perry said these issues were currently  discussed between Washington and NATO, but could become the focus of  Russia-NATO dialogue at the request of Moscow.
German Defence Minister Volker Ruehe stressed that Russia could have no  automatic right of consultation about NATO decisions, and no right of veto. It  would not be able to stop a former satellite such as Poland joining NATO.
With an eye to calming eastern European suspicion of Russian motives, he  said all NATO-Russian consultations would be "transparent" -- their details  available to other PFP countries.
Eighteen countries have joined the PFP since it was launched by NATO in  January. In order of joining, they are Romania, Lithuania, Poland, Estonia,  Hungary, Ukraine, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Latvia, Albania, the Czech Republic,  Moldova, Georgia, Slovenia, Azerbaijan, Sweden, Finland and Turkmenistan.
