MSF
BRUSSELS, May 17 (AFP) - The staged deployment of 5,500 UN troops could  come too late to save many thousands of civilians detained in Rwanda, the aid  organisation Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors without Borders) said Tuesday.
The humanitarian group appealed to the United Nations and its member  states to act urgently to prevent the continued systematic slaughter mainly of  minority Tutsis.
Hundreds of thousands of people displaced by "government backed pogroms"  have not been able to leave the country and are deprived of international  protection, the organisation said in a statement released here.
The food situation, already critical at the outbreak of fighting last  month, is getting worse, MSF said.
The group said it was worried that UN resolution 918 passed early Tuesday  to reinforce the UN presence and place an embargo on arms, did not call  forcefully for judicial action against war criminals in the tiny east African  country.
"The perpetrators of the Rwandan genocide should be condemned  internationally and brought to justice if the country is to stand a chance of  restoring confidence of its people in the rule of law," MSF said.
The organisation has already lost more than 100 of its Rwandan employees  in the massacres.
The United Nations decided to redeploy troops after coming under heavy  criticism for withdrawing all but 400 of its 2,500 ceasefire monitors when a  bloodbath engulfed Rwanda after the April 6 death of president Juvenal  Habyarimana in a plane crash.
Aid officials estimate that more than 200,000 Rwandans have been butchered.
The new force will not intervene in fighting between the rebel Rwandan  Patriotic Front (RPF) and the army, but may use force to protect civilians  being massacred by civilian militias controlled only loosely, if at all, by  the government, Kabia said.
Earlier, a UN official in Kigali told AFP by telephone that UN  peacekeepers would be powerless to staunch the bloodletting in Rwanda unless  they deployed speedily with armoured vehicles and helicopters.
Abdul Kabia, executive director of the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda  (UNAMIR), welcomed a UN Security Council decision to deploy 5,500 soldiers in  stages.
"But we appeal to the international community to provide proper military  equipment immediately," Kabia told AFP.
MSF-Belgium meanwhile said its teams have seen signs of a meningitis  epidemic among Rwandan refugees who have escaped the country to northern  Burundi.
From May 1 to 14, doctors counted thirty cases among 23,000 Rwandans in  refugee camps in the region.
MSF teams are to launch a vaccination programme Wednesday in the refugee  camps at Mubuga and Mureke in Ngozi province and at Kivumo and Gahondo in  Kayanza province.
Among people weakened by hunger and civil war stresses, the disease, which  attacks the tissue around the brain, would be expected to kill 50 percent of  the people who did not receive treatment, MSF said.
