Black faces in the government seats, a speech in  Zulu and constant bursts of applause Wednesday ensured that South Africa's new  all-race parliament will be a less sombre institution than its white-dominated  predecessor.
On only their second day as MPs, and the former guerrillas and political  prisoners making up the bulk of the African National Congress representation  in the 400-seat National Assembly already put a livelier stamp on proceedings.
Out had gone the polite "hear, hear" response to a speaker -- inherited  from the British by the previous white minority government -- and in had come  loud bursts of applause, standing ovations and cries of "viva."
For the white members of the previous government now seated in opposition  benches, the applause which greeted President Nelson Mandela's state of the  nation address on Tuesday came as a surprise.
But by late Wednesday, when all speeches were being spiced up by applause  and occasional cheers, most white MPs had adjusted to the new order and could  be seen joining in the clapping.
White MP Jurie Mentz, a farmer from KwaZulu-Natal province and  representing the Zulu nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), earned the  loudest applause when he delivered his entire speech in Zulu -- the first time  the assembly has been addressed in anything but English or Afrikaans.
A Zulu linguist, Mentz took advantage of the adoption by democracy  negotiators of 11 officials languages in the new interim constitution which  came into effect on April 27.
To shouts of "Here comes the white Zulu," Mentz took the podium and began  his address in measured Zulu tones -- forcing MPs to reach for earphones and  the English translation being provided.
National Party representative Boy Geldenhuys, however, earned the prize  for bringing the House down.
Speaking during debate on the President's address, Geldenhuys said  Mandela's speech had been a good one but that he had "one major problem -- Mr.  Mandela had said the use of the word "boy" should be abolished."
Mandela had been referring to terms used as racial insults against members  of the various population groups, "boy" being favoured by right-wing whites in  addressing grown black men.
Geldenhuys pleaded that Mandela make an exception in his case -- otherwise  he would have to change his name.
