Nunn
WASHINGTON, May 29 (AFP) - The United States has a "sacred obligation" to  defend South Korea and would beef up its forces if UN sanctions were slapped  on Pyongyang for its nuclear activities, a leading US senator said Sunday.
"If North Korea begins a war in reaction to any kind of sanctions, then  they will bring about the destruction of their own country," Sam Nunn,  chairman of the Senate armed services committee, said in a televised interview.
"The North Koreans should make no mistake about our dedication, our  intention, and our absolute firmness in continuing the course of making sure  they do not become a nuclear weapons state," the Georgia Democrat said.
The possibility of UN action against North Korea increased over the  weekend with Pyongyang continuing to block a full inspection of its nuclear  facilities needed to determine if fuel was being diverted for weapons.
Pyongyang has said it would consider any punitive measure as an act of  war. But Nunn, considered a leading policy voice in President Bill Clinton's  party, said Washington would stand firm against North Korean "brinksmanship."
He said a stable Korean peninsula was a vital interest of the United  States, adding: "We have 38,000 troops there, we have American lives, we have  a treaty and a sacred obligation to South Korea."
"One of the consequences of their (North Korea's) statements about  threatening war ... will have to be a strengthening of the defensive  capabilities in North Korea as we move forward in the UN," Nunn said.
He said the United States would be able to wipe out the North's capacity  to produce nuclear arms but would have trouble totally eliminating any  existing stockpiles.
"If they've got weapons hidden in a cave somewhere, I mean, you're not  going to find that, even if you invaded the country and took over the  country," the senator said.
He added that any military attack on North Korean facilities ran the risk  of releasing nuclear material that could endanger both the North and South.
Nunn expressed the hope that North Korea would back down and agree to full  nuclear inspections as the price for economic and political integration in the  international community.
Another Democratic senator, Bill Bradley, said Japan could put additional  pressure on Pyongyang since it handles most of North Korea's foreign currency  transactions and China supplies most of North Korea's energy.
"So you have two vises right there that can begin to squeeze, that might  indeed take place if there were ever economic sanctions voted at the UN  against North Korea," Bradley said.
