China's booming but unwieldy economy is a major  loose cannon on East Asia's strategic landscape, according to a report  released here Monday by the International Institute for Strategic Studies  (IISS).
Other signal factors in Asia, according to the IISS' Strategic Survey  1993-1994, are nuclear proliferation on the Korean Peninsula and upheaval in  Japanese politics.
"Managing the Chinese economy these days is a lot like riding a bicycle  without brakes," says the survey. "While it is necessary to keep pedalling so  as not to fall off, it is dangerous to go too fast."
The report cautions that, although China's economy is booming, Beijing has  "few mechanisms for controlling such a pace and the consequent inflation".
Exacerbating the dilemma, it says, is the political flux perpetuated by  the lingering but tenacious influence of senior leader Deng Xiaoping, 90 and  said to be in poor health.
There is a "palpable sense of weakness in the central government" and a  considerable flow of power to the provinces "while waiting for Deng Xiaoping  to die", says the report.
"The confluence of these forces means that China is at a crossroads, with  no clear path ahead...A China whose economy continues to grow at a furious  pace...could create tensions."
The IISS cautions China that it would "face concerted opposition" should  it succumb to the temptation of using its burgeoning economic power for  territorial gain, but adds:
"It is possible to see a more benign China developing...Such a China needs  to compromise...to maintain interdependence with the outside world...It  matters a great deal which road China chooses to bicycle down."
In Japan, political upheaval and economic recession were the compelling  issues of the past year, says the IISS, which entitles its assessment "The  Shock of New Politics in Japan".
"The political structure, which pitted the dominant, conservative LDP  (Liberal Democratic Party) against a socialist opposition and which...survived  throughout the cold war, finally broke down," says the report.
"Even though some political reform was at last passed, it will take time to  wean politicans from financial philandering, and the transition to the new  political structure will be messy.
"The recession proved longer and more stubborn than most Japanese  expected," says the IISS. "But continued, if often painful, efforts at  restructuring reaffirmed the underlying resilience of Japanese companies and  the economy as a whole."
The issue of nuclear proliferation "cast a darkening shadow" over the  Korean Peninsula," says the report. "North Korea, as usual huffed and puffed  while its own house seemed more and more shakey."
North Korea remains "completely isolated...continues to bluster, hiding  its nuclear intentions and threatening conflict to protect its secrets".
Democracy, meanwhile, "took a firmer grip" in South Korea.
"Once elected to the presidency in December 1992, Kim Young Sam, long  thought of as just an opposition politician, proved to many that the office  was making the man.
"There are some unresolved problem, for example on human rights, but it  has been a good year for the first elected civilian government since the  1950s," says the IISS.
(ATTENTION EMBARGO)
