Israeli officials handed over  five buildings to Palestinian officers in the early hours of Friday as a small  crowd of residents who had stayed up all night cheered on.
The Israeli flag was lowered and replaced by the Palestinian flag at the  sites, as women ululated and the crowd continued growing.
The sites were transferred formally to some 20 officers who had crossed  over from Jordan on Thursday, and to 40 more officers who came in early Friday.
Another 386 policemen, formerly based in Iraq, were due to follow later   Friday, as the Israelis relinquish control of the West Bank town to the  Palestinians under the autonomy deal signed on May 4.
Four Palestinian flags fluttered on the roof of the central police  station, which until Thursday had been the target of stone-throwing children  and the center of clashes with Israelis soldiers.
Children peered through the metal fence, talking to Palestinian soldiers  within for the first time.
"The Israeli flag had been brought down by the time we came in," said  Ahmed Abu Saadeh, a policeman who crossed over earlier this morning.
"There were no more Israeli soldiers left, we didn't shake hands with any  of them."
The Palestinians also took over the post office, a court house, an  administration building and a nearby synagogue, Abu Saadeh said. The Israelis  are also to formally hand over a main administration compound and historic  ruins later Friday.
"If all goes well, all the Jericho region will be in Palestinian hands by  Friday afternoon," Colonel Herzl, a member of the Israeli-Palestinian liaison  commmittee, whose full name was withheld for security reasons, said Thursday.
The Jericho area is to remain a military closed zone until the handover,  regional military commander Ilan Biran said.
It will "stop Israelis hostile to the peace process creating trouble,  because this town has become a symbol of autonomy in the West Bank," he added.
Jewish settlers had protested the transfer of power, and some members of  the Knesset, the Israeli parliament, staged a sit-in at the synagogue in  protest.
The synagogue lies within the Palestinian autonomy region but is expected  to be controlled in coordination with the Israeli religious affairs authorites.
"I didn't expect them to hand over the sites this quiet way," said  taxi-driver Attia Barham, 40.
"But there have been so many changes in plans that I'm not surprised.
"The Israelis saw how happy we were and didn't want to let us rejoice," he  said, referring to the discreet way the officers were let in to the region.
The transfer took place in the presence of only half a dozen taxi-drivers  on the main square near the police station, and about 50 people who had stayed  up all night trying to track down the officers.
An hour later, more than 100 men, women and children had gathered on the  square.
Israeli soldiers were stationed one kilometer (half a mile) away, at the  junction of a road they will patrol Friday with the Palestinian police. The  Palestinians are also due to take over a military base called Hanan, to be  changed to al Aqsa, the name of one of their units.
The Israeli army is also redeploying in Gaza to protect the 4,000 settlers  who remain there. It pulled out of Rafah town early Thursday, where the first  300 police have already arrived.
Palestinian police chief Nasr Yussef said the Israeli pullout from Gaza  and Jericho would be finished by next Wednesday.
"Our forces are ready to come immediately. Moreover we have the feeling  that we are finally in our own country," Yussef said.
Unlike the overcrowded Gaza Strip with its population of around 800,000,  the Jericho police are taking over a quiet oasis of 15,000 people, which is  known as both the oldest and lowest town in the world.
