Palestinians in the Gaza Strip will face  "starvation" if they are not allowed to return to work in Israel by the end of  the week, a Palestinian official warned Wednesday.
"If in the next 72 hours our merchants and workers are not given  permission to cross into Israel, there will be starvation," Freih Abu Middein,  who is member of the Palestinian self-rule authority, told AFP.
Israel last week sealed off the new Palestinian self-rule area when Moslem  militants killed two soldiers at Gaza's main Erez crossing.
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said Gaza would remain sealed off until the  Palestinian police in charge of the strip erected check points at the  crossings in order to prevent such attacks.
The Palestinian authority's efforts to talk Israel into reopening the  crossing have failed so far, according to Abu Middein.
"We are discussing around the clock with the Israelis, but we have not  been able to achieve anything yet," he said.
"If necessary, we will ask the US sponsor (of the Middle East peace talks)  to intervene, otherwise we will try and open up a communication link with  Egypt" at the strip's southern edge, he added.
Gaza's economy is based on remittances from its workers who have jobs in  Israel.
Palestinian statistics put at 60 percent the unemployement rate in the  Gaza Strip, which covers 370 square kilometers (148 square miles) and has  nearly 800,000 inhabitants.
Last week's decision to seal-off Gaza came as an additional measure  restricting the Palestinian's access to Israel's work market.
Prior to the May 4 PLO-Israel agreement that launched self-rule in the  strip and the West Bank town of Jericho, only 5,000 Palestinians were allowed  in Israel, down form 60,000 early last year.
The closure of the Gaza strip also affected trade and industry, according  to Palestinian economist Salah Abdel Shafi, who puts Palestinian losses at two  million dollars per day.
"Factories need raw material imported from Israel or on transit, as long  as goods are not circulating freely, Gaza will remain economically impotent  and crippled," he said.
The closure of Gaza is "a collective punishement that aims at isolating  this region," charged Mohammad Ashtiye, a member of the private Palestinian  Growth and Development Council..
He called on donors to speed up financial aid to the self-rule areas, set  at 2.4 billion dollars over five years.
