King Norodom Sihanouk appealed to the Cambodian  government and Khmer Rouge Sunday for an unconditional ceasefire if the two  sides fail to find a political solution to the country's civil war at peace  talks this week.
"I beg you ... to accept an unconditional, immediate, complete, lasting  and irreversible ceasefire over all Cambodia," if a political solution is not  reached, the king said in a letter released from his residence in Beijing.
In the letter, adressed to co-premiers Prince Norodom Ranariddh and Hun  Sen, as well as Khmer Rouge nominal leader Khieu Samphan and National Assembly  chairman Chea Sim, the king said he was not trying to "impose" a political  solution on them.
But he said, he hoped "from the bottom of my heart" that a political  solution could be found to Cambodia's long-running civil war at peace talks  due to be held in Pyongyang on May 27.
King Sihanouk said the ceasefire would be monitored by a commission made  up of government and Khmer Rouge officers and led by two "neutral" generals  representing the Cambodian king.
He also asked that the four leaders sign a document at the end of the  talks pledging to keep Cambodia intact and to work for a peaceful political  solution to the problems dividing the government and rebels.
Khieu Samphan agreed Thursday to attend the peace talks in the North  Korean capital, a day after Prince Ranariddh and Hun Sen said they would go to  Pyongyang without preconditions for a ceasefire, after an appeal by the king.
Hun Sen -- who has been strongly opposed to making concessions to the  Khmer Rouge -- said the talks would be based on a peace plan put forward by  King Sihanouk, who left for medical treatment in Beijing Wednesday.
The plan includes giving certain "acceptable" members of the Khmer Rouge  senior cabinet posts in exchange for giving up their zones, ceasing all  guerrilla activities and merging rebel fighters with the royal armed forces.
Government forces are currently slowly pushing the rebels back to their  Pailin base in northwest Cambodia, after the Khmer Rouge launched an offensive  that brought them to within 20 kilometers (15 miles) of Cambodia's second city  Battambang.
