A United States defense department  official said Tuesday the US would consult with southeast Asian nations as it  considers providing lethal aid to Phnom Penh.
Kent Wiedemann, a US deputy assistant secretary of defence who flew to  this Thai border town Tuesday morning, said the issue of weapons would be  discussed through the United Nations and with the consultation of regional  allies.
Wiedemann, in Thailand for three days to attend the Association of  Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum talks on security issues, had  flown by helicopter to the border.
He told AFP that he wanted "to witness for myself the effects of recent  fighting in Cambodia on this side of the border."
Aranyaprathet, roughly 225 kilometers (140 miles) east of Bangkok, has  reported repeated shelling from a continuing government-guerrilla conflict in  Cambodia between Phnom Penh forces and the Khmer Rouge.
Wiedemann, who was accompanied by Lieutenant General Sanan Khajornkram of  the Thai Supreme Command and by provincial governor Kasem Chaiyasith, met with  villagers who had been wounded by stray shells.
At one point, Wiedemann was asked whether the United States would supply  weapons to Phnom Penh to hammer to a close the long-standing battle with the  Khmer Rouge, a prospect being weighed by Australia, France and other western  countries.
"That's an issue we would have to consider in consultation with other  countries through the United Nations and with our friends and allies in the  region, which of course includes Thailand," Wiedemann said.
Later, he told AFP, "One official said that they hoped there would be no  further arms introduced into Cambodia. There were comments from several  officials (that) there was a disturbing amount of banditry going on in the  area."
Wiedemann reiterated that the United States "supports reconciliation (in  Cambodia)," but added that, "We have been disappointed at the ... attacks by  the Khmer Rouge on the Cambodian armed forces."
Cambodian King Sihanouk has requested Western military assistance for his  troops, which have been unable to gain an upper hand over Khmer Rouge  guerrillas.
The United States has provided 33 million dollars in aid to Phnom Penh for  fiscal 1994 and earmarked another 40 million for fiscal 1995, Wiedemann said.
The bulk of that assistance is humanitarian, Wiedemann said, going towards  agricultural development and infrastructure projects. Some assistance goes  toward demining efforts.
