Serbia wants an end to the fighting racking  Bosnia-Hercegovina, Russian special envoy to ex-Yugoslavia Vitaly Churkin said  Tuesday after meeting Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic.
"Milosevic assured me that Serbia strongly supported the idea of an end to  the fighting in Bosnia," Churkin said, quoted by the Tanjug news agency.
In Zagreb UN spokesman Michael Williams said UN special envoy to  ex-Yugoslavia Yasushi Akashi expected "all the parties" to the war in Bosnia  to take part in peace talks called by the United Nations in Geneva.
"We expect participation by all the parties in the talks. We want these  talks to succeed, we want them to meet their goal of leading to a complete  cessarion of hostilities in Bosnia-Hercegovina," he added.
Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic had said he hesitated to send a  delegation to Geneva while Bosnian Serb soldiers were still inside the  UN-imposed exclusion zone around the eastern Bosnian town of Gorazde, a  UN-declared safe haven.
A statement released by Milosevic's office said the Serbian leader and  Churkin had "exchanged views on the current questions around a political  solution to the Yugoslav crisis.
"In line with its well-known position that the Bosnia-Hercegovina crisis  should be resolved by negotiation and not by arms, Serbia supports a global  ceasefire accord to cover the entire territory of the former  Bosnia-Hercegovina and a lasting political solution allowing the lifting of  sanctions against Yugoslavia," the statement added.
Churkin was later Tuesday to meet leaders of the self-styled Bosnian Serb  republic, the Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA said.
The same source said Churkin had also met Milan Martic, the leader of  breakaway Croatian Serbs in the Krajina region.
Churkin, who met Milosevic for more than an hour, said that he was  considering a visit to Sarajevo. He was also expected to return to Zagreb  Tuesday for more talks there.
The flurry of activity comes ahead of the planned meeting between Bosnia's  three warring factions -- Moslems, Croats and Serbs -- for peace negotiations  in Geneva on Thursday and Friday.
Churkin is expected to attend these talks along with his American  counterpart Charles Redman and peace mediators Thorvald Stoltenberg, of the  United Nations, and David Owen, of the European Union.
In Sarajevo, meanwhile, Kresimir Zubak, a Croat, was elected for a  six-month term as the first president of the new Croat-Moslem federation in  Bosnia-Hercegovina.
Zubak, a 46-year-old lawyer, was elected as the federation's constituent  parliament met for the second day in the Bosnian capital Sarajevo.
The man chosen as his vice president is a Moslem and Bosnia's current vice  president, Ejub Ganic. Both men were nominated by their respective communities  and elected unanimously.
