An American and two German firms have been  appointed consultants and designers for a proposed 15-billion-ringgit (six  billion US dollar) giant dam to be built in Malaysia's eastern Sarawak state,  officials said on Thursday.
New York-based Power Technologies Inc (PTI) and Lahmeyer International of  Frankfurt and Fichtner of Stuart beat several other foreign firms for the job  to be undertaken jointly with Malaysia's public-listed Ekran Bhd, they said.
Ekran, the main contractor for the Bakun hydro-electric project,  identified the three companies in a statement to the Kuala Lumpur Stock  Exchange.
The dam was to flood an area the size of Singapore and supply power across  the South China Sea to Peninsular Malaysia to feed Kuala Lumpur's power  guzzling industries, officials said.
The three companies inked a pact with Bakun Management, Ekran's  subsidiary, in Sarawak's capital Kuching Thursday to undertake the jobs,  Bernama news agency reported.
Ekran chairman Ting Pek Khiing, a close friend of Prime Minister Mahathir  Mohamad, said Lahmeyer would undertake engineering designs for the dam, power  generating station, drainage channels and reservoir.
Fichtner and PTI would undertake a study on the proposed high-voltage  cable transmission network covering Sarawak on Borneo island and Peninsular  Malaysia, he said.
Foreign experts suggested that the high-voltage 650-kilometre (403.8-mile)  submarine link would be the world's longest undersea power transmission  project.
The dam project, which green groups allege could wreck the ecology, would  entail the clearing of 80,000 hectares (197,684 acres) of tropical forests,  the displacement of about 5,000 tribespeople and the possible destruction of  protected wildlife sanctuaries.
The Bakun project would have an installed capacity of 2,500 megawatts (MW)  and take about 10 years to complete. Malaysia's total power capacity now stood  at 7,000 MW with demand slightly in excess of 5,000 MW.
The environmental impact assessment for the dam project, Malaysia's  costliest infrastructure venture so far, was being conducted by the University  of Malaya researchers, Ting said.
