Southern rebels again failed to turn up for talks  with Sudan's fundamentalist Islamic government Wednesday, delaying the east  African country's slow and painful peace process.
Government negotiators and delegates from one of the two rival factions of  the mainly Christian Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) have been waiting  in Nairobi since Monday for the Kenyan-chaired meeting to open.
But representatives of the mainstream SPLA faction led by John Garang have  not showed up.
A spokesman said they were "bogged down" wading through steamy swamps in  southern Sudan on their way to Kenya by foot.
The rebel officials were forced to walk in heavy rain that made roads  impassable to vehicles because government warplanes had bombed Chukudum  airstrip in southeastern Sudan, from where they had planned to fly to the  Nairobi talks, spokesman Stephen Wondu said.
"We would like to assure the international community that we are making  efforts to come," Wondu told AFP on Wednesday.
The planned talks would be the latest in a series of so far fruitless  efforts by a six-member regional group to broker a peaceful settlement to the  decades-old conflict between Arabised northern Sudan and the black African,  mostly animist and Christian south.
Despite the failure of Garang's representatives to show up, a visiting  official of his faction signed an agreement here Tuesday guaranteeing safe  passage for relief supplies to the south, a vast undeveloped territory of  swampland and savannah, devastated by decades of war and famine.
The aid accord was also signed by the Khartoum government, the breakaway  SPLA-United faction led by Garang's former deputy Riek Mashar and Operation  Lifeline Sudan, a UN umbrella group that coordinates aid to the south.
The increasingly impoverished government has reached a military stalemate  against the rebels despite a major aerial and ground offensive launched at the  end of last year, diplomats said.
In the three years since the rebel movement splintered along tribal lines  into two main factions and at least one smaller group, Khartoum has recaptured  most southern garrison towns which had fallen to the rebels in earlier years.
But the army has failed to cut rebel supply lines from Uganda or drive the  guerrillas out of Sudan, where they can operate from bush camps and villages,  the diplomats said.
Western diplomats familiar with Sudan expressed pessimism about the  likelihood of Khartoum agreeing to the demand of the two rebel factions for a  referendum that could lead to an independent south.
The tortuous peace process is being sponsored by the Inter-Governmental  Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD), which groups Kenya, Uganda,  Djibouti, Ethiopia, Eritrea and Sudan.
IGADD got involved after years of inconclusive mediation by Nigeria, and  two rounds of peace talks in Abuja between both rebel factions and the  government which collapsed without agreement.
Kenya, which currently holds the rotating IGADD presidency, has hosted  three sets of talks in Nairobi in the past year.
But none has produced an agreement to end fighting or starvation in the  south.
Food aid is a lifeline for two million displaced southerners out of a  population of some 4.5 million.
Relief agencies say a major disaster is brewing but donors have turned  their attention to the bloodbath in Rwanda.
Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir last week blamed Garang for undermining  negotiations by breaking promises made by his representatives.
