The Cuban government announced Monday sharp  increases in prices of tobacco and liquor and some services as part of an  effort to rein in a ballooning budget deficit.
Prices will be raised at least 50 percent for cigarettes and cigars, beer,  rum and other alcoholic beverages, electric power, postal and telegraphic  services and some transportation. The price hikes take effect June 1.
Prices will also be increased for gasoline and gasoil, already rationed at  20 liters per month for private vehicles. Although the hikes are steep, the  prices remain below black market rates.
"These increases mean new sacrifices," the weekly Trabajadores (Workers)  said Monday in an editorial accompanying news of the price hikes adopted by  the executive committee of the Council of Ministers.
The Cuban economy is afflicted by an estimated 4.2 billion peso budget  deficit -- the same amount in dollars at the official exchange rate -- with 12  billion excess pesos in circulation.
"We do not applaud this measure, but we understand it and know that the  country has no other option," said Trabajadores, the official publication of  the state-run labor union and the only publication to come out Monday.
The order for the price hikes, which also ends state subsidies for workers  cafeterias, does not affect basic foods still furnished by the state at  extremely low prices. They are, however, strictly rationed.
Ominously for poor Cubans, the Finances and Price Ministry is looking at  still more subsidies with an eye toward eliminating them.
Saying that a parallel increase in salaries was "impossible," Trabajadores  sought to minimize the impact of the steps.
"The Cuban worker still spends proportionally less than other Latin  American workers on housing, electricity, transportation and basic foods," the  weekly said.
Though most regularly scheduled inter-city transport has been eliminated  since the collapse of the Soviet Union cost Cuba its top trading partner and  cut-rate oil supplier, fares for remaining inter-city buses rose 116 percent,  domestic air fares were up 80 percent and train fares were hiked 60 percent.
Electricity, already in extremely short supply because of a lack of fuel  to run thermo-electric plants, also was targeted for big increases for  customers who consume more than 100 kilowatt hours per month.
Under a package of measures authorized by the National Assembly May 2, the  price hikes are due to be followed by additional steps, including a  progressive income tax and reductions in subsidies to state enterprises.
