Australia's best-known entrepreneur of  the 1980s, Alan Bond, now has an IQ of 108 -- far below the level to be  expected of someone who headed one of the nation's biggest business empires, a  court heard Tuesday.
Perth magistrates heard that the former tycoon -- who once had an  above-average Intelligence Quotient of about 130 -- suffered brain damage  after complications following open heart surgery.
The evidence came on the fourth day of a hearing in which Bond's lawyers  are seeking to delay fraud proceedings against the now bankrupt and divorced  56-year-old former Australian of the Year, by six months.
His legal team argue he is not fit to stand trial on four charges of fraud  relating to the sale of a painting, "La Promenade" by French impressionist  Edouart Manet.
But the prosecution claims Bond is greatly exaggerating his medical  problems.
Dr. Gary Groth-Marnat, lecturer in clinical health psychology at Curtin  (Perth) University, told the court Bond's present intelligence and reasoning  ability were inconsistent with a person who had control of a business as big  as the former Bond Corporation.
The corporation owned breweries, newspapers, television stations, gold  mines and had a share in the major Chile telcommunications company.
Such a business would not be run by a person with Bond's now average IQ,  Groth-Marnat said.
Before Bond's brain damage, which the doctor attributed to open-heart  surgery, the former tycoon would have had an IQ of 130 or higher, placing him  in the top two to five percent of the population, he said.
Groth-Marnat said extensive tests also showed Bond to be suffering from  moderate to severe depression, insomnia and feelings of worthlessness.
Bond faces two counts of failing to act honestly in his duties as an  officer of Bond Corporation and two counts of furnishing a false or misleading  report.     The prosecution alleges that "La Promenade" was sold to Bond's  family company, Dallhold Investments, for 1.6m Australian (US1.16m) and  auctioned in New York the following year for 17m Australian (US 12.4 m).
