Southern Yemen declared independence on  Saturday, after more than two weeks of civil war, but President Ali Abdallah  Saleh vowed to fight on for the country's four-year-old unity.
Despite a three-day ceasefire announced for the Moslem feast of Al-Adha, a  military spokesman in Sanaa accused the south of violating the truce on all  fronts and bombardment was heard from the southern port city of Aden.
Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid, Saleh's southern rival, announced in a  televised address: "I proclaim the creation of the Yemeni Democratic Republic  (YDR) as an independent state with its capital in Aden."
The declaration came on the eve of the fourth anniversary of the  unification of conservative and tribal North Yemen and the former Marxist  South.
The two sides, locked in a political crisis between Baid and Saleh since  August 1993 over the running of the country, have been at war since May 5,  with northern troops advancing on Aden.
Baid said the decision to break away was the result of Saleh's campaign to  "destroy the south" and his rejection of dialogue on the basis of a  reconciliation accord they signed on February 20 in Amman.
But Saleh swiftly rejected the announcement of independence and vowed that  the war would continue until Baid surrendered to go on trial for war crimes.
The proclamation was "unlawful" and would never be accepted, he said at  Moslem prayers in Sanaa to mark the feast of Al-Adha, which falls at the end  of the pilgrimage to Mecca and marks Abraham's will to sacrifice his son.
Saleh, in a speech broadcast on Sanaa Radio, said however that the north's  announcement earlier of a three-day ceasefire for Al-Adha which started on  Saturday was still valid.
"This decision by a sick person suffering from schizophrenia is unlawful,"  he said.
"We will never accept this secessionist decision," the president warned.   "We will offer our sons, our brothers, friends and comrades in-arms as martyrs  ... for the sake of this nation and preserving Yemeni unity."
Despite the ceasefire from midnight Friday (2100 GMT), the south was  fighting on all fronts Saturday and its warplanes and ships bombarded northern  troops, a northern military spokesman charged.
Saleh, who has taken refuge in the eastern province of Hadhramaut  according to informed sources in Aden, said his new state would be governed by  the same constitution as that of the unified Yemen.
Calling for international recognition, he said the country would base its  legislative system on sharia, or Islamic law.
Yemeni unity would be a "a primary objective that the YDR will try to  rebuild through wide national alliances and on the bases of democracy and  peace," Saleh pledged.
He also announced the formation of an 111-member council of national  salvation comprising elected southern deputies, representatives of political  parties and religious figures.
It would choose a presidential council and an interim government, and  multi-party elections would be held within a year.
Baid, whom Sanaa sacked after the outbreak of war, gave assurances the new  state would respect "political and public freedoms, human rights and freedom  of expression and of the press," and maintain a liberal economic system.
His announcement prompted spontaneous celebratory gunfire throughout the  southern port city, correspondents said.
Anti-aircraft guns and automatic weapons fire filled the sky for two  hours. Pick-up trucks filled with people roared through the streets of the  city of more than 500,000 residents, with horns blowing.
"Ali Abdallah's a killer!" and "Saleh, a little Saddam!" crowds shouted.
Saleh's General People's Congress and Baid's Yemen Socialist Party had  formed a fragile governing coalition after April 1993 elections. They were the  respective leaders of North and South Yemen.
The declaration came after a day of bitter fighting. Hours earlier, Sanaa  called a 72-hour ceasefire as of Saturday 00:00 a.m. (Friday 2100 GMT), Saba  news agency said.
A spokesman for the southern forces said 1,500 of Saleh's troops had been  killed Friday in the Kharaz region west of Aden while trying to advance on the  city. The death toll was not confirmed by the north.
The south also claimed the recapture of the strategic air base of Al-Anad,  north of Aden.
At the Arab League in Cairo, officials noted that recognition of the  independence of southern Yemen would need the approval of two-thirds of the  organisation's 22 members.
"Most Arab states are likely to accept the division of Yemen," an Arab  diplomat said, asking not to be named. "In the light of present circumstances,  you must admit that the unity of Yemen cannot be imposed by force."
