Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak on Tuesday said  the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) still had a role to play in the post-Cold War  world but had to map out a fresh strategy as he opened a ministerial  conference here.
"Let us agree in this conference to set a new schedule for our movement to  direct our efforts," he said, "so that we do not lose our past but live our  present and look to our futures."
"We are not in need of turning the movement into a bloc that  ... fears  the establishment of the new world order," he told the movement's foreign  ministers. "Our real need is to participate with thought and work."
The NAM, of which Egypt was a founding member, was created in 1955, in  response to the division of the world between the two superpowers.
Representatives of more than 80 countries have gathered for the four-day  ministerial conference which will choose a new chairman to take over from  Indonesia when its three-year term runs out in September 1995.
Foreign ministers attending include South Africa's Alfred Nzo, and Ali  Akbar Velayati, the highest-ranking Iranian official to visit Egypt since  relations soured after the 1979 Islamic revolution.
Ministers were set to officially approve South Africa's application to  join the organization later Tuesday, making it the 109th member.
The application was approved Monday during a preliminary session following  the scrapping of apartheid and all-race elections last month, and officials  raised the South African flag in the conference hall.
Mubarak dismissed the idea that the end of the Cold War rendered the NAM  unnecessary, but said that it would have to change its methodologies if it is  to continue effectively.
"The common denominator between the movement's members have not  disappeared ... but have been affected by the (world) change ... such that we  need a comprehensive and constant revision of the movement's evolution."
A draft of the final resolution stresses the importance of reforms to the  movement's structure and workings, and that it should not be reduced to  non-alignment "in the terms of a struggle between super-powers."
To face the international changes, Mubarak said NAM should integrate  itself with the rest of the world on all levels, including politically and  economically.
On the political level, Mubarak advised, NAM should intensify its attempts  to open dialogues with all countries, big and small. Mubarak also suggested  that NAM coordinate with the Group of 77 so that it could effectively  represent the interests of developing countries.
Economically, Mubarak said NAM should learn to deal with the "new reality"  of economic groupings such as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade  (GATT.)
These groupings, he said were based on opening up, mutual dependence, and  realizing a balance between the advanced countries and those of the developing  world.
The NAM should also find a "scientific and objective view" to resolve the  regional conflicts erupting among its member states, Mubarak said.
Several of NAM's member states, including Yemen, Rwanda and Bosnia have  slid into civil war.
A meeting of NAM experts on Monday decided to ignore a Serbian application  to join, although Bosnia has been invited to attend the conference. Nabil  Arabi, Egypt's UN representative, said NAM members would not discuss Serbia's  request.
Both Egypt and Indonesia are expected to submit documents outlining their  vision of the future for the organisation, which was set up in Bandung,  Indonesia in 1955.
