About 30 wounded survivors of Rwanda's killing  fields died in their beds when rebels shelled Kigali's main hospital Thursday,  and a Swiss doctor was wounded by rebel rocket fire, officials said.
The Un headquarters was also pounded by mortars in the heaviest fighting  in Kigali for 10 days, but nobody was hurt, UN military commander General  Romeo Dallaire said.
In the latest tragedy in the battle for the Rwandan capital, eight or nine  mortar shells slammed into the Kigali general hospital, killing 30 patients in  a tent erected in a courtyard to cope with a huge influx of people with  gunshot and machete wounds, Dallaire said.
An unknown number of people were wounded in the hospital, where shells  fell near the pediatric section, the pharmacy and the main office.
"There were smashed buildings, a lot of people and blood," said Dallaire,  who blamed the rebels.
He visited the hospital, packed with about 3,000 patients, on his return  from talks with the rump government in an effort to broker a ceasefire between  ethnic majority Hutu government forces and the Tutsi minority-dominated rebel  Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) before the planned arrival of thousands of UN  peacekeepers.
"It's tragic. I hope it was an accident because I don't see the military  advantage of hitting a hospital," said UN spokesman Abdul Kabia.
The hospital is in a government-held area near a big army base, Camp  Kigali.
Dallaire said he was trying to make contact with rebel commanders to  explain why the hospital and the UN base, in a rebel-held area, had come under  fire.
A dozen mortar shells fell harmlessly in the UN compound, Kabia said.
A Swiss doctor was meanwhile wounded by shrapnel just outside Kigali on  Thursday while escorting a truckload of food for needy civilians on the front  line between rebel and government forces, a Red Cross official said.
Philippe Gaillard of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)  said he "strongly suspected" that rebel guerrillas were responsible.
The RPF has admitted firing on a convoy carrying former French  humanitarian minister Bernard Kouchner on the same road Sunday.
Gaillard declined to name the doctor, whose wounds were not  life-threatening.
He was hit in the left side by rocket fragments and evacuated aboard a UN  armoured personnel carrier to an ICRC field hospital in Kigali.
Gaillard said rebel commanders had assured him that if their fighters had  been responsible for the attack on the doctor's convoy, in which all vehicles  bore Red Cross markings, it was a mistake.
"I cannot afford this kind of mistake," Gaillard told AFP by telephone  from Kigali.
The doctor had been taking food and medicine to displaced people encamped  in various locations south of the capital where rebels are advancing towards  Gitarama.
The rebels have cut the road between Kigali and Gitarama, where the  interim government fled days after after the death of president Juvenal  Habyarimana in an alleged April 6 rocket attack on his plane unleashed an  ethnic bloodbath.
Half a million people, mainly members of the minority Tutsi tribe that  dominates the rebel movement and Hutu opposition supporters, have been  butchered. Many have been hacked to death with machetes.
Dallaire said he was expecting a response Friday from the government to UN  proposals to establish a neutral zone at the airport, where shelling again  prevented relief flights from landing Thursday.
Asked whether he was optimistic that the two sides would agree to a  ceasefire, Dallaire said: "There's still a lot of fight left in both of them,  and they're going to continue for a while."
Army gunners pounded rebel headquarters at the former parliament building  and RPF guns boomed out from the surrounding hills.
The shape of the new UN peacekeeping operation in Rwanda which the UN  Security Council voted to create Tuesday by sending 5,500 troops to stem the  bloodletting is still unclear.
The UN, shaken by its failure to end factional fighting in Somalia, is  having difficulty persuading member states to contribute troops for another  dangerous peacekeeping mission in Africa.
