The successful conclusion of a global trade  pact is being threatened by a proliferation of regional trading arrangements  and pressure on governments to renege on the landmark deal, GATT chief Peter  Sutherland said Wednesday.
"The conclusion of the Uruguay Round does not herald a definite victory of  multilaterism over protectionism. The arguments for the protection of the few  against the interests of the many are not going to fade away," he warned.
Some governments were facing significant domestic pressure to amend or  overturn the Uruguay Round accord of the General Agreement on Tariffs and  Trade (GATT), Sutherland told the 27th Pacific Basin Economic Council (PBEC)  international general meeting here.
"However, such governments will have to face down those pressures knowing  the rest of the world is waiting and watching. They have to explain clearly  that there will be no renegotiation of the final results of the Round," he  said, adding: "A deal is a deal."
The Uruguay Round accord on freeing up world trade, signed in Marrakesh in  Morocco after seven years of negotiations that began in Punta del Este, will  lead to an increase of 750 billion dollars in trade over the next 10 years.
So far, Sutherland said only 20 to 30 of 124 countries that signed the  accord had ratified it.
Officials from developing countries at the PBEC meeting expressed concern  that the United States could backtrack from its approval of the GATT accord  following reports that Congress could delay ratifying the global trade pact.
US Commerce Secretary Ron Brown was quoted as saying Monday that "in the  politically-charged atmosphere of this election year, congressional approval  can still be blocked by a small group of people who are frightened of the  future."
Speaking to reporters afterward, Sutherland said: "It is vitally important  that the Congress of the United States will give the lead in the early  ratification in order to ensure that the WTO is in operation on January 1."
The World Trade Organisation will replace the Geneva-based GATT, which has  operated on an interim basis since 1947, and will have greater powers to  enforce international trading relations.
Some officials at the PBEC meeting also charged that the United States was  giving greater priority to the North American Free Trade Arrangement (NAFTA)  than the Uruguay Round accord.
NAFTA, which began on January 1, calls for trade barriers separating the  US, Canada and Mexico to be dismantled within 15 years.
Sutherland said: "There may be some who believe that regionalism can  really be a substitute for multilaterism. It is a misplaced belief and would  inevitably set the scene for trade conflict of a most serious and politically  dangerous kind."
He said that, since 1992 alone, 20 new free-trade arrangements and customs  unions involving GATT members had been notified to the Geneva secretariat.
There were currently 15 working parties established to verify the  conformity of these arrangements with GATT obligations and "this is more than  at any time in GATT's history," Sutherland said.
