Warring Armenians and Azeris in Nagorno-Karabakh  failed Tuesday to finalise a ceasefire agreement after the sides disagreed on  the timetable for negotiating a special political status for the enclave,  officials said.
The agreement brokered by Russia and which appeared to be on the verge of  a breakthrough Monday called for an immediate ceasefire and the deployment of  military observers to be followed by the arrival of 1,800 troops from the  Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).
An Azerbaijani official quoted by Interfax said that the Armenian side  demanded that Nagorno-Karabakh be given a special political status before  withdrawing troops from occupied territories surrounding the enclave.
The Armenian ambassador to Russia Felix Mamikonyan said that Azerbaijan  wanted separatist troops to pull back from the territories seized last year  simultaneously with the deployment of the CIS troops, ITAR-TASS reported.
The territories were captured last year in an Armenian offensive to the  south and west of the enclave that have left 20 percent of Azerbaijan's  territory under separatist control.
The press service of Azerbaijani President Geidar Aliyev later charged in  a statement that Armenian demands for the recognition of a Nagorno-Karabakh  republic were a "gross distortion of the contents of the agreement and  virtually a call to resume miltary actions", ITAR-TASS reported.
Aliyev stressed that Azerbaijan "wanted a fair and peaceful settlement"  based on the principles of territorial integrity and respect for its current  borders.
The latest ceasefire agreement came on the heels of several failed  attempts by Russia and the international community under the auspices of the  Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe to end the six-year war in  the Armenian-populated enclave, located within Azerbaijan.
At least 20,000 people have died in the six-year war -- the longest  running ethnic conflict in the former Soviet Union -- and one million people  have been displaced.
Meanwhile, a ceasefire decided as the first stage of the Russian-mediated  agreement went into force at OOOO GMT Tuesday (2000 GMT Monday) and appeared  to be holding despite reports of isolated gunfire, Armenian and Azerbaijani  officials said.
Military leaders of separatist Armenian forces in Nagorno-Karabakh and of  the Azerbaijani defence ministry accused each other of staging "provocations"  by opening fire but both sides claimed that they had not responded to the  attacks, news agencies said.
Russian Deputy Defence Minister General Georgy Khondratiev said that  experts would continue work on the final document and said that Azerbaijan  might sign the protocol at a later date.
A spokesman for the Azerbaijani embassy in Moscow, Fahkhad Agamaliev, told  AFP that there remained "technical details" to work out and that the talks  were merely temporarily suspended.
