Aden authorities proclaimed early Saturday the  creation of an independent state in South Yemen.
Announcing the secession from the north, the south's leader Ali Salem  al-Baid said in a televised address: "I proclaim the creation of the Yemeni  Democratic Republic as an independent state with its capital in Aden."
The declaration came just a day before the fourth anniversary of the  unification of North and South Yemen.
The two sides, embroiled in a political crisis since October 1993, have  been at war since May 5.
Al-Baid until now Yemen's vice-president said the decision to break away  was a consequence of attempts by his bitter rival, northern-based President  Ali Abdallah Saleh, to "destroy the south" by means of war, and his refusal to  countenance dialogue on the basis of a bilateral reconciliation document  signed February 20 in Amman.
He said the new state which he called on "friendly" countries to  recognise, would be governed by the same constitution as that in force in the  north.
He also announced the formation of a council of national salvation which  will choose a collegiate presidency and an interim government, adding that  elections would be held within a year.
The new state was committed to respecting "political and public freedoms"  and would maintain a liberal economic system, he added.
The announcement prompted spontaneous celebratory gunfire throughout the  southern port city, correspondents said.
The independence declaration came hours after the government in Sanaa  called a three-day ceasefire in the civil war, to come into effect from  Saturday 00:00 a.m. (Friday 2100 GMT), the SABA news agency said.
Northern leaders presented the truce as "a last chance to the (southern)  separatists ... to end their rebellion, adhere to the constitution and place  their troops under the command of the head of state" in Sanaa.
The secession move came on the eve of the fourth anniversary of the  country's unification after an ideological rift of 23 years.
The formerly marxist state of South Yemen was reunited with the  conservative North in May 1990 but the armies of the two sides never merged.
