The French airline Air Liberte is to complain of  discrimination by London Heathrow airport in a case for the commission of the  European Union, the company said on Monday.
The company said that it planned to open four daily flights between Orly  and Heathrow from June 30 but that it had not yet obtained flight slots  enabling it to establish a coherent timetable.
The airline said that it wanted to ensure that arrangements for access to  the two airports were "fair and equal".
The rights being used by British airlines to gain access to Orly for  flights from Britain "do not seem to be respected for French companies" which  were experiencing "difficulties in obtaining a timetable of landing rights at  Heathrow".
The deputy managing director of Air Liberte, Cedric Pastour, said: "We  hold that the access to this market is not fair and that there is  discrimination."
The complaint would be laid on Monday or Tuesday. The French civil  aviation authorities were expected to support the case.
The EU commission has instructed France to make Orly airport accessible to  British Airways and its French subsidiary TAT. The move which has caused  anxiety to the French state-owned Air France airline which is in severe  financial trouble.
International flights for foreign airlines are currently operated from  Charles de Gaulle airport north of Paris, and the French authorities fear that  access for foreign airlines to Orly, south of Paris, will increase competition  on flights to the south of France.
During the weekend French and British authorities reached a compromise.  Orly is to be opened to British Airways from the end of June and French  airlines are to have greater access to Heathrow.
Meanwhile in Frankfurt the German Lufthansa airline, which is partly owned  by the German state, said it was also interested in obtaining landing rights  at Orly. Company president Juergen Weber told an annual press conference on  company results that "clearly we are also interested in serving Orly".
He said: "We also want to land there. It will not be today, nor tomorrow,  but perhaps the day after tomorrow."
He expressed satisfaction that the European airline industry was being  de-regulated.
In Paris, French Transport Minister Bernard Bosson said that a strike by  employees of the Air Inter airline called on Tuesday to protest against  liberalisation was "understandable but is not the solution" to the airline's  problems.
Air Inter is a subsidiary of Air France.
Bosson said that trades unions were "fighting against decisions taken in  Brussels years ago by former governments".
He said: "It is not this government which took ultra-liberal decisions. We  are inheriting them. Today we are doing everything to organise managed  competition."
He told a meeting of the confederation of small and medium-sized companies  that: "We object to ultra liberalism, British for the most part, which is  rampant in Brussels."
