French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe moved Tuesday to  end a row over a Paris stopover by his Libyan counterpart, saying he saw no  reason to have refused a visa as the two countries kept up diplomatic  relations.
The French foreign ministry said Monday that the minister, Omar  Al-Muntasser, came to Paris at the weekend on a private visit, after attending  last week's inauguration of Nelson Mandela as South African president.
The ministry insisted Muntasser had no meetings with government officials.
The news of the visit has infuriated relatives of people who died in a  French airliner bombing in 1989 blamed on Tripoli.
Libya has been punished with UN trade sanctions over the downing of a  French UTA jet over Chad that killed 170 people, and of a PanAm jet over  Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988 that claimed 270 lives.
Speaking to RTL radio Tuesday, Juppe noted that Muntasser was the foreign  minister of a country with which France has not broken off diplomatic  relations.
"Therefore, when he requests a transit through Paris between two  stopovers, I see no reason why we would refuse a transit," Juppe said.
"That has been accepted on many occasions over many years," he added.
However, this did not mean that France had not changed its attitude to  Libya.
"We are among the most forceful in demanding the application of UN  Security Council resolutions and the pursuit of the judicial process to judge  the guilty or suspected guilty parties for the attack on the French UTA  aircraft," Juppe said.
French foreign ministry spokesman Richard Duque said Tuesday that the  transit visa was delivered by the French embassy in Tripoli before the Libyan  minister headed for Mandela's inauguration in Pretoria last week.
Interior Minister Charles Pasqua said Tuesday that he had not been  informed of the visit.
According to a reliable source in Paris, the Libyan minister's stay in  Paris was organised by an intermediary of the Saudi Arabian businessman Adnan  Khashoggi.
The last time a Libyan foreign minister visited Paris was in 1991.
