PLO chief Yasser Arafat in a decree published  Tuesday cancelled Israeli military orders for the autonomous areas of Gaza and  Jericho that regulated the lives of Palestinians during 27 years of occupation.
But Rafi Gamzu, a spokesman for the Israeli foreign ministry, said the  notice published in the Al-Quds daily was invalid because Israel retained some  legislative power in the autonomous areas.
Arafat's first decision was signed by him on May 20, the Arabic-language  newspaper said.
Arafat, who heads the Palestinian National Authority overseeing the  autonomous areas, "has decided that laws and rules in power before June 5,  1967 in the Palestinian lands of the West Bank and Gaza Strip will go into  effect until they (the laws) are made uniform."
The decision refers to the autonomous Gaza Strip and West Bank town of  Jericho.
Arafat also ordered that the "civil and religious courts ... judges and  prosecutors observe the laws in use."
According to Freih Abu Meddein, a lawyer and member of the Palestinian  authority in Gaza, the majority of military orders which regulated daily lives  "have been cancelled and the laws in effect before June 5 will replace them  until we have new legislation.
"We will only keep the orders which do not harm the public interest and  those concerning external security and the crossing into Israel as mentioned  in the Cairo agreement."
The military has issued 1,450 orders since 1967. Thousands of regulations   have also been issued by the military administration.
The foreign ministry's Gamzu said Arafat's "decision has no value because  Israel still has some legislative powers in the autonomous territories."
"Changes can only be made in accordance with the fixed procedure, which is  not the case with this decision."
The decree is "null since it contradicts article seven of the Cairo  agreement on Gaza and Jericho," which was signed May 4 to launch Palestinian  autonomy.
Gazu said that under article seven 13 "the power of legislation belongs to  the Palestinian National Authority and not to Yasser Arafat in person.
"The authority must present proposed legislative changes to a legislation  subcommittee."
The subcommittee includes Palestinians and Israelis.
