The chairman of First Division club Millwall,  facing action by the football authorities over a riot this week, has  apologised for abusive comments he made about an opposing player.
Reg Burr had described Derby County's black defender Paul Williams, one of  at least two Derby players punched by fans who invaded the pitch during  Wednesday's play-off semi-final, as "unpleasant player" and "just one of those  who attracts trouble and abuse."
Burr was also quoted in the Press as saying: "I don't think racism in  football exists in the way most people believe.
"It is just a shorthand way for supporters to let certain players know  their
feelings about the way they play."
Players' union chief Gordon Taylor subsequently confronted Burr over the  remarks he made after the disturbances at his club's New Den ground.
On Saturday Taylor released a statement he had recieved on behalf of Burr,  apologising for the comments.
The statement read: "Mr Burr wishes to make it quite clear as regards  reports in various newspapers and comments alleged to have been made following  the pitch invasion at The New Den on Wednesday night, that he never suggested  Paul Williams had any responsibility either for the pitch invasion or the  abuse aimed at him and Gary Charles (Derby's other black player).
"As far as he is concerned, they were indefensible incidents and he is  sorry for any embarrassment his remarks may have caused Derby County Football  Club and Paul Williams."
The assault on Williams came during the second pitch invasion of the  night, which also saw Derby goalkeeper Mark Taylor felled by a punch.
Later Rams' manager Roy McFarland substituted Williams and Charles,  believing they were prime targets for the hooligans.
After the match up to 1,000 fans rampaged in the stadium car park,  overturning a BBC vehicle. Sixteen arrests were made and seven people were  injured, including six policemen.
On Thursday Millwall were charged by the Football Association with crowd  control failure and could face a big fine as well as the closure of The New  Den, which only opened this season.
dm94am
