Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres accused  Syria Tuesday of refusing to join the peace talks and making excessive demands.
"They're running away away from the need to negotiate," he said in a CNN  television interview.
"They would like that we shall do everything tangible immediately and  fully ... and they shall come with their response," he said.
The dispute between Israel and Syria has been the main stumbling block in  the Mideast peace process which began in Madrid in October 1991.
Israel is demanding that Syrian commit to total peace before negotiating a  withdrawal from the Golan Heights, which it annexed in 1981, while Syria is  calling on Israel to agree first to pull out of the strategic plateau.
Peres insisted that discussing the terms of a future peace accord were  essential to concluding a Mideast peace agreement.
"Normalization begins with negotiations," he said.
Peres is in the United States this week to meet with officials from the  White House, international financial institutions and UN diplomats to discuss  the costly process of carrying out the 1993 agreement on Palestinian autonomy.
At UN headquarters in New York, Peres asked Japan's Ambassador Hisashi  Owada for the immediate release of 30 million dollars to cover costs for the  transition. Toyko has pledged a total 200 million for the process.
The Israeli minister also rejected a proposal to move Jewish settlers from  sensitive areas.
"Any change in location under the current conditions would only be  damaging because in the current atmosphere, it is impossible to set borders,"  he said .
Peres said on CNN he had full confidence the Palestinians would manage the  difficult task of managing their new territory.
"I believe the Palestinians are capable of running their own life," he  said, adding: "I have full sympathy for their supreme effort."
When asked whether he thought Palestinian Liberation Organization chairman  Yasser Arafat was capable of administering the accord, Peres said Arafat was  the most important "spokesman" for the Palestinians.
"Whether we like everything he says or not is another question, but  undoubtedly he is the decisionmaker on their side," he said.
