Senior figures from Britain's Labour opposition  party hope their new leader will be known by mid-July, following the death of  John Smith which has devastated British politics, the press reported Saturday.
An early leadership contest could capitalise on the party's current  strength over the ruling Conservative party which, according to an opinion  poll Saturday has fallen into third place -- 21 points behind Labour and half  a point behind the Liberal Democrats.
Labour's chairman David Blunkett said the party would move "sensibly but  quickly into resolving the leadership, and the opinion appears to be we should  try and do that by mid-July."
Blunkett said the timetable for a leadership contest would be drawn up by  the party's ruling national executive at its next meeting on May 25.
Meanwhile, Britain's three main political parties have announced a  suspension of campaigning in the Europen elections until after Smith's funeral  Friday in Edinburgh, and a political truce, as a mark of respect, has called a  temporary halt to partisan attacks.
It is still too early to gauge the effect of Smith's death on Labour's  chances of success.
However, a Gallup Poll taken before his death from a heart attack  Thursday, but published in Saturday's Telegraph found nearly half of voters  think Labour will win the next general election.
In the wake of the Tories' drubbing in local elections last week, the  survey gives Labour, on 45 and a half percent, a 20 and a half point lead over  the Liberal Democrats which are on 25 percent. The Tories are third on 24 and  a half percent.
Few place all the blame on British Prime Minister John Major. Most point  the finger at the government as a whole, although only 13 percent of Gallup's  respondents think Major is "firmly in charge."
In Inverness to a Scottish Tory conference, Friday night, in a speech  recast to remove political aspects, Major indicated he had no intention of  standing down and asked: "Judge me on my whole term. All of it. You can't  judge a house when only the foundations are laid."
Editorial comment in Saturday's Telegraph analysed the current sombre  political mood: "The death of Mr Smith and Labour's prospective leadership  trauma could influence national politics in two obvious ways.
"First, the current wave of emotion may spill over into some sympathy  votes for Labour at the European elections on June 9, enlarging the party's  likely triumph.
"Yet Mr Major's prospects of retaining the Tory leadership seem  strengthened... If the government can avoid another self-inflicted crisis for  a few weeks, the Tory leadership issue may recede as public attention focuses  on the future of the Opposition."
On her first full day as acting Labour leader for the imminent  Euro-election campaign Margaret Beckett on Friday expressed confidence that  her party's leadership issue would be decided without rancour "to make sure  that his (Smith's) life's work is not frustrated by his death."
In Saturday's Daily Mirror, Beckett said she hoped the memory of Smith's  decency would change the attitudes and behaviour of all politicians.
And she pleaded for unity to continue: "He was very proud of the way the  party has pulled together. He was very proud of the sense of unity and the  will to win."
She urged her party to: "continue to display that unity and will to win...  We must all conduct ourselves so that he would have been proud of us and do  nothing that would let him down. We must do nothing that will in any way mean  that his work comes to nothing."
As to the leadership candidates, the bookies' 1-3 favourite for the job is  domestic affairs expert Tony Blair.
