Cautious optimism Friday greeted London's offer to  give Northern Ireland a referendum if the question of a united Ireland arose  as part of a peace process.
The pledge came in a detailed reply to 20 questions from Sinn Fein, the  legal political wing of the banned Irish Republican Army (IRA), which had  demanded clarification of last December's Anglo-Irish declaration for peace in  Northern Ireland.
The questions were forwarded by the Irish government last Friday on behalf  of Sinn Fein which has so far avoided responding to the December 15  declaration offering it a part in the political peace process provided the IRA  renounced violence.
Up to now Sinn Fein has merely made repeated calls for clarification, a  move the British government interpreted as a bid to reopen negotiations by the  back door.
The British government's reply offered little expansion on the  declaration, but its measured commentary, rather than the "brush off" feared  in some quarters, has been seen to place the onus firmly on Sinn Fein to  persuade the IRA to end its campaign of violence against British rule.
While the Irish government warmly welcomed the British reply, Sinn Fein  said it would examine the government's comments and reply to them later.
However loyalist firebrand Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionist  Party, called the document "a 20-page love letter to (Sinn Fein President)  Gerry Adams".
Insisting it was clarifying, not negotiating, the British reply answered  only one of the 20 questions: what was exactly what was meant by promising to  "uphold the democratic wishes of a greater number of the people of Northern  Ireland"?
It confirmed that, if necessary, a referendum would be held to establish  the wishes of the Northern Ireland people concerning the province's future.
The other 19 questions "range much more widely" than seeking elucidation  of the text of the declaration, said the reply.
The document ended with a direct plea for the republicans to renounce  violence -- question 21, as British officials put it.
