Conservative party presidential candidate  Diego Fernandez was the big winner among the three candidates in a landmark  debate that put the three candidates face-to-face, press reports said Friday.
"Diego wins debate" ran headlines in the independent morning paper Reforma  following the debate Thursday night. Its poll of voters in two states put the  conservative candidate well ahead.
The debate made Mexican history -- the first time presidential candidates  were in the same forum arguing the issues. Radio and television broadcasts of  the debate reached a potential 40 million people in a nation of 81 million.
Thursday's debate was the also the latest mark of change in a campaign  turned on its head with the assassination of ruling party candidate Luis  Donaldo Colosio on March 23.
While telephone polls are problematic in Mexico because many poor people  do not have them, the daily El Economista said that in its telephone poll 45  percent of those contacted said Fernandez won the debate.
Still, 47 percent said they would vote for Zedillo if the elections were  held tomorrow. Forty-eight percent said Zedillo put forth the best political  program.
But an Indemerc-Louis Harris poll found that Zedillo was the winner by a  squeaker.
Potential voters said that the ruling party's candidate had the most  experience (40 percent) and the best program for creating jobs and raising  wages (41 percent).
Fernandez was found to be the best speaker (43 percent) and most sure of  himself (41 percent).
An unexpected loser was was Cardenas, 60, the son of a wildly popular  former president, former Michoacan governor who broke from the PRI. In the  Harris poll, he scored best on experience (19 percent) and personality (11  percent).
Zedillo, of the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), came under  fire from Fernandez of the National Action Party (PAN) and Cardenas of the  Revolutionary Democratic Party (PRD) during the 90-minute program.
Cardenas, 60, promised to set up a constitutional assembly in 1997 if he  is elected and called on Fernandez to "fight together for democracy."
The possibility of the PRD and PAN joining forces, political analysts  said, could cost Zedillo the election and end the PRI's 65-year stranglehold  on the government.
Fernandez, a 53-year-old lawmaker, did not respond to Cardenas' proposal  but joined him in calling for a "pluralist government" and for an "end to the  party of state (the PRI)."
After years of hearing only the drone of official statements on television,  Mexicans could hardly believe their ears as the opposition candidates tore  into past and present government policy.
Cardenas and Fernandez called for an end to corruption in the police force  and the justice system, to current economic policy, to poverty gnawing at 40  million Mexicans, to the constitution, to the urbanization of the country, to  unemployment and job insecurity, and to rising prices and violence.
Fernandez showed no mercy for Zedillo.
"You are here because of two tragedies: the March 23 assassination of Luis  Donaldo Colosio (Zedillo's predecessor as PRI candidate) and the 'finger,'"  the PAN candidate said referring to the age-old tradition of PRI presidents  personally choosing their successors.
"The first (tragedy) you had nothing to do with. The second, disqualifies  you from speaking of democracy," Fernandez told the former education and  programming minister.
