Three IAEA inspectors headed to North Korea from  Beijing Tuesday on a crucial monitoring mission that could determine whether  Washington demands sanctions against the Stalinist state or sits down to  discuss normalisation with it.
At the crux of their trip is a five-megawatt reactor at Yongbyon, 90  kilometers (56 miles) north of Pyongyang, whose spent fuel rods, the United  States warns, could yield enough plutonium for four or five nuclear bombs.
North Korea on Saturday said it had begun the fuel-rod change before the  IAEA team's arrival, but through its mouthpiece KCNA said the agency need have  no fear of diversion as the process was being monitored by IAEA cameras.
Pyongyang is "prepared to store all the spent fuel under the strict  surveillance of the IAEA and fully allow the IAEA to measure it," the KCNA  broadcast quoted a North Korean foreign ministry official as saying.
But it was still unclear whether the International Atomic Energy Agency  (IAEA) inspectors, making their first trip in two months, will get to the  reactor on the current visit as well as monitor a key "radio-chemical  laboratory" at Yongbyon.
Hours before the three -- Olli Heinonen of Finland, Vladimir Rukhlo of  Russia and Jamaluddin Omar, a Tanzanian -- boarded a North Korean civil flight  in Beijing for Pyongyang, the United States indicated that the key phase of  the replacement could still be a while off.
A US State Department spokesman was quoted by South Korea's Yonhap news  agency late Monday as saying he understood it could take up to two months to  complete the change.
The three inspectors, citing agency gag rules, declined comment at Beijing  airport, but IAEA headquarters in Vienna has said its inspectors will be  immediately recalled if actual refuelling of the experimental five-megawatt  reactor has started.
Said IAEA spokesman David Kyd: "If the reports of the refuelling turn out  to be correct ... if the refuelling has reached a critical stage ... the  inspectors will be immediately recalled to Vienna."
But in Seoul, where the government is in constant close touch with  Washington on the North Korean nuclear impasse, officials quoted by local  press and the national news agency Yonhap appeared reasonably confident.
Preparations are underway for a third round of high-level talks between  Washington and Pyongyang, and Seoul and Washington were already discussing  "joint action in dealing with the expected results," Yonhap quoted unnamed  high government officials as saying here Tuesday.
The officials and observers here based their hopes on the fact that  details of the scope of further IAEA inspections are scheduled to be a subject  of the third round, and that the cooling down of the experimental reactor  would take at least 15 days.
The United States hopes the third round will clear up major uncertainties  over North Korea's nuclear ambitions which have unsettled North Asia for more  than a year, and lead to gradual thawing of the last barrier of the Cold War.
The alternative, Clinton administration officials, say, is to impose  economic sanctions on the isolated Stalinist state, which denies any nuclear  ambitions and has said it would consider sanctions as a declaration of war.
