Greek Foreign Minister Carolos Papoulias said  Monday that Athens would close its border to Albanian migrant workers if  bilateral relations continued to deteriorate.
As tension between the two nations increased, Papoulias said (Albanian  President Sali) "Berisha should know before firing off impudent accusations  against Greece that we provide work for 400,000 Albanians."
He added the frontier could "not remain open to the flux of thousands of  clandestine immigrants."
The outburst came a day after Albania called on the international  community to investigate Athen's "war cries" directed at Tirana, which the  latter claimed were a Greek device to "create a new Bosnia in the Balkans."
Papoulias lambasted Tirana's "defamatory" allegations as "unacceptable,"  and added the European Union troika of Belgium, Greece and Germany should  intervene "to protect the rights of the Greek minority in Albania."
Berisha meanwhile said in an interview with Albanian state broadcasters  that he wanted dialogue with Greece and was confident the European Union would  help establish such contact. "The Greek minority enjoys full rights," he added.
Greece has persistently accused Albania of persecuting its Greek minority,  estimated by Athens to number 400,000 but put at just 60,000 by Albanian  authorities.
Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou pledged on Friday to pursue  diplomatic efforts to defuse the row with Albania but warned his government  was also prepared to take other measures. In an interview with the journal Ta  Nea, he demanded ethnic Greeks be treated "in accordance with human rights,"  and lambasted what he called Albania's deliberate "provocations."
Papoulias said good relations between the two states depended on "the  complete respect" of the Greek minority and of "Hellenism in Albania." He  added Athens was waiting for Tirana to pass a law governing the teaching of  Greek in Albanian schools.
The Greek minister has sent letters on the issue of ethnic Greeks in  Albania to UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali and US Secretary of  State Warren Christopher.
