Greece on Tuesday threatened to take "drastic  measures" to protect the interests of the Greek minority in Albania, and ruled  out any immediate resumption of talks on the issue.
Foreign Minister Carolos Papoulias was responding to an overture made  Monday by Albanian President Sali Berisha who indicated his willingness to  resume talks with Greece.
"The latest crackdown against the Greek minority has changed the climate,  and we will not accept ... a dialogue considering the conditions under which  the Greek minority is living," Papoulias said.
Papoulias added that he was not permanently rejecting talks on the issue  but that such a dialogue had to be prepared in advance. "I hope the Albanian  government has understood what is in its best interest," he said.
The row between Albania and Greece centres on two issues: the status of  the ethnic Greek minority in a part of southern Albania which nationalists  claim for Greece, and the presence of Albanian immigrant workers in northern  Greece.
On the first part of the dispute, Greece has persistently accused Albania  of persecuting its Greek minority, estimated by Athens to number 400,000 but  put at just 60,000 by Albanian authorities.
Greek Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou has pledged to pursue diplomatic  efforts to defuse the row with Albania but warned his government was also  prepared to take other measures.
In an interview with the newspaper Ta Nea Friday, he demanded ethnic  Greeks be treated "in accordance with human rights," and lambasted what he  called Albania's deliberate "provocations."
On the issue of Albanian immigrants in Greece, Papoulias warned Monday  that Athens would close its border to Albanian migrant workers if bilateral  relations continued to deteriorate over the issue.
During the day Tuesday, Greek Defense Minister Gerassimos Arsenis visited  the Greek-Albanian border to insure that armed troops posted there were  "fulfilling their duty."
He said he planned to tour villages affected by the influx of migrant  workers and would look at ways to "ensure better border protection."
The Greek minister has sent letters on the issue of ethnic Greeks in  Albania to UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali and US Secretary of  State Warren Christopher.
The latest flare-up in the dispute between Athens and Tirana comes two  weeks before the European elections, with Papendreou's Panhellenic Socialist  Movement thought to be toughening its stance for electoral purposes.
Any softening of its nationalistic line could be seen as giving political  ammunition to the opposition New Democracy party of Miltiade Evert or the new  nationalist Political Spring party of Antonis Samaras.
