The mainly Tutsi Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF)  Sunday seized Kigali airport and the government-held nearby Camp Kanombe  barracks, UN officials announced.
Hundreds of people fled the camp after the rebels took the airport  following days of intense shelling. The Hutu government barracks accommodated  up to 4,000 troops until recently and were the biggest in the Rwandan capital,  according to a UN estimate.
UN spokesman Abdul Kabia, reached by telephone in Rwanda, said the  airport, where 200 Ghanaian UN troops are stationed, fell to the RPF at about  6:00 a.m. (0400 GMT) with no casualties reported.
"The RPF soldiers are everywhere, in the buildings, on the runway," one  military source said.
Kabia said the army appeared to have abandoned its positions around the  airport, where it had stationed anti-aircraft guns.
He added that about 300 people in civilian clothing left the camp after  the rebels arrived at the airport and asked the Ghanaian contingent for  protection.
After the rebels seized Kanombe about 600 refugees, all dressed in  civilian clothing, sought shelter at the airport.
He said some of them carried guns, grenades and machettes and were  disarmed.
Sunday afternoon observers of the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda (UNAMIR)  entered the camp but saw only "very few signs of close combat."
"We did not see any dead bodies," Kabia added.
The Ghanaian contingent would remain at the airport until the situation  changed, he said.
Government forces continue to hold the barracks of the presidential guard,  defense ministry troops and "Camp Kigali," near the defense ministry in  downtown Kigali.
"The takover of the airport and Camp Kanombe is very important, very  significant for what will follow," said RPF spokesman James Rwego.
It will be "very difficult" for government troops to retake the airport,  he added.
But humanitarian aid ferried through the airport until the latest fighting  broke out could resume as shipments would now be easier to handle, he said.
Kabia said the situation in Kigali calmed down Sunday afternoon.
An independent military source said the army Saturday asked the UNAMIR and  the Red Cross to evacuate 160 injured people from the camp.
The battle for the airport, located on the outskirts of the capital, had  raged four days, preventing relief planes from landing and halting UN efforts  to pave the way for a new peacekeeping mission.
The United Nations has been trying to secure neutral status for the  airport to allow it to fly in humanitarian aid and reinforcements for the UN  peacekeeping troops.
The rebels replied that they considered the airport a military target  because of the government army base nearby.
Kabia said that the UNAMIR headquarters at the Hotel Amahoro, in the  eastern part of the capital, was shelled Saturday but there were no  casualties.
At least two million people have been made homeless by the fighting which  erupted in early April, and hundreds of thousands have fled the country.
Estimates of those butchered range between 200,000 and 500,000.
