Egyptian riot police Tuesday fired tear gas at  thousands of lawyers protesting the death of a colleague in police detention,  wounding two people and making 39 arrests, the interior ministry said.
About 6,000 people were gathered at the bar association's headquarters in  central Cairo when baton-wielding riot police intervened with tear gas as the  demonstrators neared the gates to march on the presidential palace.
The association, which is dominated by Moslem fundamentalists, said it had  tried several times to secure authorization for the march in protest at the  alleged torturing to death of Abdel Hareth Madani.
It had given assurances the demonstration would be peaceful.
But the interior ministry said the association was backed by extremists  out to stir trouble in the streets and had stoned the police and shouted  slogans against the government.
Two people were slightly wounded and 39 others arrested, 27 of them  lawyers, it said.
Most of Egypt's 180,000 lawyers went out on protest strike Sunday against  Madani's death on April 27, a day after he was detained on charges of acting  as a go-between for jailed Moslem extremists and contacts abroad.
He was a defence lawyer for Moslem fundamentalist spiritual leader Sheikh  Omar Abdel Rahman and other members of Islamic groups fighting to overthrow  the government.
Last week, the prosecutor general's office issued a preliminary report by  legal medical experts concluding he had been tortured to death. But, the  interior ministry insisted he died of an asthma attack.
The lawyers' association described Madani's death as "premeditated  murder," and the Egyptian Organization of Human Rights also charged he died of  torture.
The association's secretary general, Seif al-Islam Hassan al-Banna,  insisted Tuesday that its protest action was "strictly professional" and  nothing to do with the politics of its members.
The lawyers want a new autopsy to determine the cause of death and a trial  if the police are found to have tortured Madani, said Banna, a grandson of  Moslem Brotherhood founder Hassan al-Banna.
They also demand that the authorities free lawyers whom courts had ordered  to be released from jail.
Thirty-four lawyers are currently in jail under emergency laws dating back  to 1981 when then president Anwar Sadat was assassinated by Islamic militants.
