A two-day summit of 57 countries will be held here  from Thursday with the aim of defusing possible new wars in Europe by settling  potential border disputes and solving the problems of minorities.
The brainchild of French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur, the conference  will aim to frame a Stability Pact which would be signed by the end of the  year for potential new candidates to the European Union (EU).
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said the summit aimed to settle border  and minority problems between "countries with the vocation of entering the  EU," follwing the collapse of the Soviet bloc.
They are six central and eastern European countries - Poland, the Czech  Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania - and the three Baltic  countries - Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. Only one country that emerged from  former Yugoslavia - Slovenia - has also been invited.
Wars that have already broken out in Bosnia and the Caucasus and the  conflict between Russia and Ukraine over Crimea will be left out.
Juppe said the conference, sponsored by the EU as a whole and to be held  at UNESCO headquarters here, would be an "exercise in preventive diplomacy"  for future EU members.
European Affairs Minister Alain Lamassoure said the union, while prepared  to accept new members, was unwilling to take on board "new sources of  conflict."
The aim was to "provide a political impetus" to handle good-neighbour  problems "better and quicker," Juppe said.
On the agenda will be the big Hungarian minorities in Romania (1.6  million) and Slovakia (600,000).
Budapest is anxious to protect their rights to autonomy, notably in the  cultural field, while the Romanian and Slovakian governments are seeking  Hungarian acceptance of the inviolability of existing frontiers.
Today's borders date from the 1920 Trianon treaty which removed  Transylvania and part of Slovakia from Hungarian sovereignty because the  former Austro-Hungarian empire was allied with Germany during World War I.
The summit, at which the United States and Russia will be represented, will  also attempt to deal with problem of Russian minorities in the three Baltic  countries and the withdrawal of Russian troops.
Juppe said he hoped an interim conference would be held by the end of the  year, to be followed by a summit in the first since months of 1995 to sign the  Stability Pact.
The pact would incorporate good-neighbour accords already reached, for  example that between Germany and Poland on the Oder-Neisse line fixing their  border, and those yet to be negotiated. The texts would be guaranteed by the  Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
The four new members of the EU - Finland, Norway, Sweden and Austria -  will attend the Paris conference on Thursday and Friday, along with the three  neighbours of the central European Visegrad group - Belorussia, Moldavia and  Ukraine.
Apart from Russia and the United States, eight other states with a direct  interest in European stability will also take part - Albania, Canada, Cyprus,  Iceland, Malta, Switzerland, Turkey and the Vatican.
