Millions of voters cast their ballots on  Thursday in by-elections seen as a mild test of strength for India's ruling  Congress (I) party ahead of state assembly polls later this year.
A supporter of the centrist Janata Dal party was wounded by an arrow in  the eastern state of Bihar and other minor incidents were reported but the  polling was generally peaceful across the country, election officials said.
Voters in 12 states went to the polls to fill seven seats in parliament,  the Lok Sabha, and 10 state assembly seats. Turnout ranged between a low of 40  and a high of 75 percent, according to provisional estimates.
The most closely-watched races will be the head-to-head battles between  Congress and main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP, Indian People's  Party) candidates.
In the central state of Madhya Pradesh, Chief Minister Digvijay Singh of  the Congress is facing a challenge from the BJP's Ramvallab Kasat but is  expected to scrape home and retain his post as chief minister.
Singh's brother is also a state assembly candidate and a BJP activist was  hospitalized following an attack by Congress supporters in his constituency,  local officials said.
Police reservists with shoot-on-sight orders were deployed to prevent any  trouble during voting in Bihar, where some one million people are voting for   two seats in the Lok Sabha.
Despite the heavy police presence, a Janata Dal supporter was seriously  injured by an arrow fired by a member of the rival Bihar People's Party,  election officials said.
In the southern state of Andhra Pradesh, police fired into the air to  break up clashes between supporters of candidates seeking election to the Lok  Sabha, police said. No injuries were reported.
Trouble of an entirely different sort was expected in the neighboring  state of Orissa, where a herd of wild elephants has threatened to disrupt  voting.
The seven elephants have killed one person in a rampage which began after  they strayed from their sanctuary in Bihar into Orissa's Mayurbhanj district,  where the Lok Sabha election is taking place.
Forest department officials were armed with burning torches and  firecrackers to keep keep the pachyderms away from polling places.
In Tamil Nadu, two state assembly seats are up for grabs in an election  seen as a test of the popularity of Chief Minister Jayalalitha Jayaram, a  former film actress with a cult-like following.
Just hours after polling began, a state Congress leader alleged that  Jayaram's party was offering cash and gifts to voters.
"This is not an election. It is a farce," said S.R. Balasubramaniam,  calling for an investigation.
In the northern hill state of Himachal Pradesh, Narinder Thakur of the BJP  is seeking to replace his father, state assemblyman Jagdev Chand, who died in  December. He is facing Anita Verma of the Congress.
One Lok Sabha and two state assembly seats are up for grabs in West  Bengal, India's only Marxist-ruled state. The Communist Party of India  (Marxist), which has held sway in the state for 17 years, is the clear  favorite.
Voters will also be casting ballots for Lok Sabha and state assembly seats  in Kerala, Maharashtra, Nagaland, Punjab and Rajasthan.
By-elections had also been due Thursday in Uttar Pradesh, India's most  populous state, but have been rescheduled for next week.
Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao's Congress party has sought to minimize  the importance of the by-elections, which come ahead of the state assembly  polls in 10 states later this year and early next year.
But the respected Times of India newspaper commented Thursday that the  results of the by-elections "will serve as an index of the people's mood."
"They could well indicate the changes to come later this year," it said.
