The minority cabinet of Japanese Prime Minister  Tsutomu Hata could resign in June if the Social Democratic Party (SDP) rejoins  the ruling coalition, a ruling party leader said Wednesday.
The coalition and the SDP "could form a new cabinet at the end of the  current parliament session," which ends on June 29, Kozo Watanabe, deputy  leader of the Renewal Party, said in a speech.
The Renewal Party, which Hata belongs to, is one of the core groups in his  fragile coalition government that came to power April 28.
Watanabe was responding to recent remarks by SDP chairman Tomiichi  Murayama and secretary-general Wataru Kubo, who indicated that their party  might return to the ruling camp if Hata resigned voluntarily.
The SDP, now the second-largest opposition party, withdrew from the ruling  camp just before the formation of the Hata cabinet, saying it was dissatisfied  with "high-handed" political management by other coalition partners.
Coalition lawmakers, including those from Hata's Renewal Party, Japan New  Party and Democratic Socialist Party, suddenly formed in April a parliament  union, Kaishin (Renovation), allegedly without consultations with the SDP,  then the biggest coalition partner.
The formation of Kaishin without the participation of the SDP, widely  believed to be at the initiative of powerbroker and Renewal Party co-leader  Ichiro Ozawa, prompted the SDP to leave the ruling coalition.
All SDP leaders have said that the sudden inauguration of the  parliamentary negotiating group on the eve of the formation of the Hata  cabinet was undemocratic.
The SDP supported Hata's election as prime minister in a parliament vote  on April 25.
Watanabe indicated Wednesday that Kaishin might be dissolved in order to  coax the SDP to rejoin the coalition. "We should reflect on the issue  (formation of Kaishin) and seek understanding from the SDP," he said.
SDP leaders said recently that their party was ready to table a  no-confidence motion against the Hata cabinet if the prime minister refused to  step down voluntarily.
The Yomiuri Shimbun newspaper said Wednesday that its recent nationwide  opinion poll found that popular support for the Hata cabinet fell 5.2 points  from April to 51.6 percent.
The main-opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), meanwhile, has  indicated that it was also ready to submit a no-confidence motion against Hata  immediately after the government's fiscal 1994 budget cleared parliament.
The budget is expected to be approved by parliament during the current  ordinary session as both LDP and SDP are ready to support its passage.
LDP president Yohei Kono has repeatedly said that Hata was not qualified to  manage Japanese politics as his coaliton forces do not have a majority in  parliament.
The combined number of LDP and SDP seats represent comfortable majorities  in both houses of parliament.
Some analysts said that the two parties could form a coalition government,  toppling the Hata cabinet, while others speculated that Hata might dissolve  the 511-member lower house of parliament in June for a snap general election.
The LDP lost its 38-year grip on Japanese politics in general elections  held last July, while the SDP joined the ruling coalition in August.
An senior LDP official on Wednesday strongly demanded the resignation of  Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroshi Kumagai, saying that he was "dictatorial."
Former international trade and industry (MITI) minister Eiichi Nakao said  at a parliament meeting that when Kumagai was MITI minister he forced a  director-general of the ministry to resign last December.
"It's a reckless act and dictatorial," Nakao said. "If I were you, I would   resign."
Nakao said that Kumagai forced the resignation of the bureaucrat on the  grounds that the director-general gave an unfair promotion to a MITI official  who quit the ministry to run in elections.
The LDP legislator claimed that Kumagai himself had been given such a  promotion before leaving the MITI to become a politician.
Kumagai was MITI minister before he became chief cabinet secretary late  last month.
