The United Nations Assistance Mission in Rwanda  (MINUAR) on Monday protested to the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front over shots  fired at a convoy in which former French minister Bernard Kouchner was  traveling.
Gunmen opened fire Sunday on the convoy, forcing the former minister for  humanitarian action and officials accompanying him to leave their vehicles and  dive for cover.
The incident happened as Kouchner was on his way back from visiting  Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25 miles) southwest of the capital Kigali, where he  met officials in the interim government.
UN spokesman Moctar Gueye was hit in the face by fragments and had to go  to Nairobi for treatment on Monday. Nobody else was injured in the shootout,  which happened three kilometres (a mile and a half) outside Kigali.
Gueye said MINUAR had also formally complained to the government forces  escorting the convoy, which had proved unable to ensure its complete security.
Kouchner, who has been in Kigali since Thursday, has met all parties to  the conflict, which flared between the minority Tutsi and the majority Hutus  in the wake of the plane crash which killed the country's Hutu president  Juvenal Habyarimana on April 6.
He has also visited various camps for displaced persons and two  orphanages. He has been trying to persuade the warring sides and militia to  allow these "hostages" of the conflict to leave the capital by taking  "humanitarian corridors" between the city centres and the airport.
His efforts had still not borne fruit on Monday, but Gueye said the  situation could change. Kouchner was scheduled to have left on Sunday but was  still in Kigali on Monday.
Gueye said Kigali was very quiet on Monday because of heavy rain. Some  shots were fired during the night but the positions remained roughly the same  and it was a waiting game.
There were fierce clashes on Sunday between government forces and RPF  rebels in Kigali and several other towns, notably Ruhengeri in the northwest,  and Bugesera, south of Kigali. The rebels are moving from east to west, south  of the capital, towards Gitarama, where the interim government has taken  refuge.
A estimated 200,000 people have died in the ethnic violence which has raged  across the tiny highland central African state in the past five weeks and half  a million people have fled to neighbouring countries.
