Business, labour and the media Wednesday  hailed President Nelson Mandela's speech to parliament in which he launched an  attack on poverty but remained committed to fiscal discipline.
"Encouraging and reassuring," was the verdict of the South African Chamber  of Business (SACOB), which represents the bulk of the country's large  companies.
A SACOB spokesman also said business was more than willing to support  Mandela's Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP), which aims to attack  the backlogs in black areas created by apartheid.
Dealers said the market had reacted positively, especially to the  re-appointment of central Reserve Bank governor Chris Stals.
Market analysts also said the speech would give confidence to overseas  investors who have been delaying their entry into South Afica until their was  clarity on future economic policy.
Mandela focused on the RDP in his state of the nation address to  parliament in Cape Town on Tuesday, ending his speech with an appeal to all  South Africans: "Let us get down to work."
Mandela set himself a target of 100 days to address "major areas of  desperate need" with projects "under the direct supervision of the President."
He listed these as free medical care in state hospitals for pregnant  mothers and children under six; a feeding scheme in primary schools; the  electrification of 350,000 homes during the current fiscal year; a campaign to  rebuild townships, and efforts at job creation and training.
Mandela also committed the government to "overall financial stability,"  and limits on spending, a promise praised by business.
The Afrikaanse Handelsinstituut (AHI), which groups mainly  Afrikaan-speaking business leaders, welcomed Mandela's committment to monetary  and fisal discipline, saying the economic priorities he had set out formed the  basis of greater confidence and stability in the economy.
South Africa's largest labour federation, meanwhile, the Congress of South  African Trade Unions (COSATU), said in a statement that Mandela's speech had  sent an "electric wave of hope around South Africa."
"It was truly the speech of a people's president, reflecting his concern  first and foremost for the ordinary people of this land," COSATU said.
The media also heaped praise on Mandela Wednesday, with Johannesburg's  financial newspaper Business Day terming the speech an "inspired, positive and  attainable vision."
The Star newspaper called Mandela's address "romantic and wonderfully  unifying," while the conservative The Citizen said "so far, so good."
In an editorial, the Cape Times newspaper termed Mandela's speech  "appropriately positive and hopeful and well-calculated to inspire confidence  in the fiscal policies of his government of national unity."
The "relatively modest" budget allocations Mandela mentioned for his  crucial RDP "and other indications in the speech suggest that fiscal  discipline will be a major objective," it said.
"In all, the tone and thrust of President Mandela's remarks were aimed at  impressing upon the the investment community at home and abroad the  government's determination to provide a favorable environment for economic  growth, uninhibited by increased taxation," it wrote.
