Former Palestinian prisoners  toured the empty Israeli jail here Saturday as their new police force met  local dignitaries on the first full day of deployment in Jericho.
Apart than mounting joint patrols with Israeli border troops outside the  town, there was little active duty for the police. And with administrative  offices closed, a holiday atmosphere took hold of the West Bank town.
"Today we are resting and distributing the new posts," said Major Ahmad  Abou Hamida. "We are cleaning up the place and we will be ready for full work  in a couple of days."
Essam Mahmoud, a 35-year-old who was jailed here in 1988 toured the prison  with other former inmates. "I wanted to see my old cell ... I can't believe  that now I can enter here without handcuffs," he said.
Another former detainee, 40-year-old Ahmad Umtar, pointed to a cell's  white-washed walls. "There were all our names on the walls here. Now they're  all gone."
"I came here today with feelings of anger at the Israeli injustice and  brutality. I wanted to see this old place. I now hope all of Palestine will be  liberated."
At the new Palestinian headquarters, the former offices of Israel's  military administration, senior police officers met local dignitaries to  discuss the details of self-rule and the changes to come.
Police were on alert at the gates after a child killed himself by accident  there in the midst of celebrations Friday by firing a gun that happened to be  loaded. A woman and an elderly man were also injured in the accident.
In an investigation by the self-rule authorities, the officer who owned  the gun was being questioned and would be punished for negligence if found  guilty, said Mohammad Shaker, in charge of public relations.
As the euphoria which greeted the transfer of power a day earlier eased,  Jericho residents mingled with the policemen.
Small groups of people crowded around to exchange stories at police posts,  and cars driving in from the rest of the West Bank stopped to shake hands with  forces at an informal checkpoint.
Palestinian policemen were also deployed Saturday in Jabalia on the Gaza  Strip after Israeli troops withdrew under the cover of night.
With the latest deployment, almost 1,500 policemen have now entered the  Strip, where the south of the territory has been completely evacuated by the  army. The rest of the Strip is to be handed over by next Wednesday.
