Army-backed interim president Emile  Jonaissant said Thursday that Haitians seeking to flee the violence-ridden  country for the United States would face punishment if they are returned.
In a news conference at the National Palace, the leader, unrecognized by  the international community, said his government would enforce a 1980 decree  providing for penalties for clandestine emigration.
In Washington meanwhile, US officials said discussions were continuing  with  France and Britain on use of their Caribbean territories as temporary  refugee processing centers.
Since President Bill Clinton announced a change in policy on Haitian  refugees, the United States has been seeking a third country to allow  interviews of Haitian refugees to determine who qualifies for political  asylum. The US government will also use ships at sea for the interviews.
US officials said France and Britain want assurances that the Haitians  would not remain for extended periods if refused asylum in the United States.
Washington is discussing use of the French overseas departments of  Guadeloupe and Martinique and the British dependent territory Turks and Caicos.
Since Clinton announced the new policy May 8, there has been a sharp  increase in Haitians intercepted at sea, but all have been repatriated by the  US Coast Guard because the new system has not been put into effect.
Jonassaint, who was sworn in May 11, said meanwhile that a US invasion to  restore exiled president Jean-Bertrand Aristide, which has been discussed in  Wsahington, would be "a crime."
"What can we do against the United States?" Jonassaint said. "They could  reduce us to ashes in a minute."
Jonassaint also said his government was examining steps to cope with tough  international sanctions due to take effect Sunday.
The UN Security Council ordered the sanctions to take effect at midnight  May 21 (0400 GMT Sunday) if Haitian leaders failed to take action to restore  the Aristide's democratically elected government, which was ousted in a 1990  coup.
"These sanctions were imposed on Haiti in violation of the charters of the  Organization of American States and the United Nations," Jonassaint said.
