The UN Security Council must recognize the unity of  Yemen or the government will reject its peace efforts and fight on, a senior  northern official warned Tuesday as the Council met on the civil war.
Deputy Prime Minister Abdelwahab al-Ansi said the Security Council "cannot  stop the legitimate forces" from fighting for unity.
"Anything which does not recognise unity and the election results, or  which does not halt interference from neighbouring countries, will be  rejected," he told AFP, referring to last year's parliamentary elections.
Northern troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh and southern forces  have been at war since May 5, four years after the former conservative North  and Marxist South merged to form a united Yemen.
In New York, the Security Council began debate Tuesday on efforts to bring  about a ceasefire and resumption of negotiations.
On the battlefront, southern armoured forces drove back a lightning  northern advance in a tank battle at the village of Waht on Tuesday, just 20  kilometers (12 miles) from Aden.
Amid a flare-up in fighting, troops loyal to the president have opened up  two new fronts to the north and northwest of Aden, capital of the south's  breakaway Yemen Democratic Republic.
Ansi said Saleh's forces were now in a strong position, but "they do not  want to pay too heavy a price."
However, "if it is necessary to go into Aden we will do so," he warned.
"The aim is to stop the threat to unity ... If the separatists insist on  working from Aden, after we have done all we can by peaceful means, they will  have to face the consequences."
But Ansi said the government had decided not to shell the city itself, and  if it was necessary to enter Aden "it will be a very limited operation."
Saleh's forces could have attacked strategic targets in the city, such as  the television station and port facilities, but decided not to in order to  avoid civilian casualties, he explained.
However, missiles had hit Aden airport, which southern jets use as a  launchpad for attacks on northern troops closing in on the city.
Ansi said that a maximum 300 northern Yemeni civilians and soldiers had  been killed and 700 wounded so far in the war between Saleh's forces and those  of his southern rival Ali Salem al-Baid.
The casualty figures are low because most civilians have cooperated with  the "legitimate" forces and many southern troops had changed sides, he said.
The south itself has not given a casualty toll.
The heaviest casualties for the north were when two Scud missiles slammed  into densely populated areas of Sanaa, and during the fighting for Al-Anad  military base, 60 kilometres (35 miles) from Aden.
At least 16 northern troops were killed at the base.
