Ireland resuscitated their ailing tour  of Australia with a gallant performance against Super Ten rugby union  champions Queensland here Sunday.
Ireland went down in the final seconds 29-26 to renew hopes of a  competitive showing against the world champion Wallabies here on June 5.
After upsetting the powerful Queenslanders -- winners over Natal in the  Super Ten final -- with their aggression to take a 16-13 halftime lead, the  Irish battled to level the match 26-all with a late try to Garryowen hooker  Keith Wood.
But a penalty 38 metres from the goalposts for Wallaby fly-half Michael  Lynagh gave Queensland a face-saving win and condemned Ireland to a third loss  in four tour outings.
The Irish went to a 9-6 lead in the first half before Queensland struck  back to 13-9 with a try to test halfback Peter Slattery, converted by Lynagh.
But the Irish bounced back when Queensland fullback Matthew Pini took a  wrong option in his quarter and from the maul fly-half Eric Elwood kicked for  the corner where wing Simon Geohegan outsprinted Anthony Herbert to pull the  ball down just short of the dead ball line.
Slattery was replaced by Test understudy Brett Johnstone soon after  halftime and Queensland sparked into action, test aspirant Daniel Herbert  leaping Tim Horan-style to take a Lynagh high kick and score.
The penalty procession took the score to 26-19 before an Irish attack  Geoghegan in the thick of things again, chasing down a kick to scramble the  ball back to a flying Wood, who scored under the posts for a converted try.
The Irish euphoria was shortlived.
Queensland was well served by the cool head and controlled kicking of  Lynagh, while Damian Smith on the wing did his Test chances no harm.
For Ireland, Geoghegan was impressive and uncapped Ballymena centre  Jonathon Bell was a standout in the midfield.
Ireland take on an Australia XV in Mount Isa in northern Queensland on  Wednesday in their final match before the first of two internationals against  Australia here on June 5. The second test is on June 11 in Sydney.
