The last Israeli troops pulled out of Gaza on  Wednesday, torn between sheer relief that the nightmare was over and the  humiliation of a retreat before rejoicing Palestinians.
"It's the great escape, a debacle," moaned Captain Eli Kaham, who  commanded a reserve army unit in Gaza City.
"Why did we leave Jabaliya like thieves in the night," said the 38  year-old of the secret pullout this week from the toughest refugee camp on the  Strip.
But he admitted "breathing a sigh of relief" when he quit the "cursed  land" after a 32-day tour of duty.
"But I can't get rid of a strange feeling at abandoning all the barracks  we built there to Palestinians who have come from Iraq, Algeria or elsewhere,"  said Kaham, who was resting up in Jerusalem.
Career officer Colonel Amos, whose family name cannot be published, gave  voice to his bitterness.
"If it had depended solely on officers we would not have left giving the  impression that Palestinian stones saw off the most powerful army in the  Middle East," he said.
Israel's southern region commander, General Matan Vilnai, sought to play  down what the ranks were saying about "fleeing" Gaza after so much blood and  sweat.
"I am proud of the way we have left Gaza," he told reporters. "There is no  cause for shame in what we have done or and in the manner of leaving."
"The decision to evacuate the main Israeli bases in the night was taken by  the chief of staff to avoid mass celebrations and clashes which could have  developed," an amry spokesman said.
However few of the soldiers who have crossed back into Israel through the  Erez border in recent days failed to break into smiles.
"All those who claim they will regret leaving Gaza don't know what they  are talking about," said sergeant Itai, a 20-year-old who served 18 months in  Jabalia, where the intifada or uprising ignited and burned most fiercely for  more than six year.
"There is nothing to regret."
One of his comrades in the Givati brigade, did a little jig as he sang an  Israeli hit record "Goodbye Gaza for ever".
Sergeant Meir, 21, was among those struck by nostalgia after being  evacuated from the governor's headquarters in the heart of Gaza City, the last  Israeli bastion.
"In 10 months active service, I learnt a lot. Every day in Gaza was a  challenge, an adventure," Meir said.
Border policeman, Sharon Israeli, 20, thought the withdrawal left a job  undone.
"The only way to ensure security for Israel is to fight terrorims from  inside the Gaza Strip," he said.
His commander, border police chief Hussein Fares, 42, from a Druze village  in Galilee, was nicknamed by Palestinians the "Mukhtar (chief) of Gaza".
"I'm pleased we left the Gaza Strip without losing our human face. Despite  the violence, we have dealt with human beings. I became friendly with some of  them and I will miss them," said Fares.
But he admitted he would not be going back.
