the horse-trading for leadership of Britain's  opposition is taking place behind the scenes, but 41-year-old Tony Blair  emerged Thursday as clear favourite eight days after the sudden death of John  Smith.
During the week leading up to the funeral in Edinburgh of the man who  symbolized the Labour Party's "tranquil power" -- he will be buried Friday --  party leaders refused even to discuss the succession, and Blair, the shadow  interior minister, shunned all contact with the press.
But on the sidelines, would-be successors and their camps were hard at  work.
The stakes are high, with virtually all opinion polls indicating the next  Labour Party leader will be prime minister after the 1997 general elections.
His personality is thus deemed critical at a juncture where the  Conservatives, in power for 15 years, are showing signs of exhaustion and a  growing inability to deal with nagging internal divisions.
The next Labour leader will need a reassuring moderation in counterpoint  to the party's excesses during its last stint in power, which lingered in  voters' minds in 1992 when, against all odds, they chose Conservative leader  John Major as prime minister over then Labour leader Neil Kinnock.
In the eyes of the British press and many MPs, the candidate who best  meets those criteria is Blair, a "moderniser" from the party's right, as was  Smith.
The Financial Times, the business daily that shocked financial circles  when in backed Labour in 1992, has said Blair could become Britain's John  Kennedy.
The conservative press has unanimously labeled him the most formidable  opponent to the Tories.
Ironically, the burgeoning unanimity for Blair could hurt him.
"Mr. Blair is the ideal Tory newspaper's man, which makes me nervous,"  said one Labour party member.
In fact, Anthony Charles Lynton Blair presents a near-ideal candidate.  Graduate of Fettes, Scotland's most fashionable private school -- the "Eton in  kilts" -- he is a barrister noted for his oratorical skills.
A Scot with an English accent, he is fluent in French, an avowed  pro-European, and since being elected an MP at the age of 30 his career has  been dazzling.
He became a member of the shadow cabinet at the age of 31, and when Smith  took the party's leadership from Kinnock after the 1992 elections, Blair was  considered his "heir apparent."
His youth is seen as both a pro and a con.  He is too young to have been a  minister when Labour was last in power and lacks government experience, but  that is a handicap shared by almost all the contenders.
However, his youth also provides the image of a messenger of hope,  modernity and confidence for the future. Mindful of public preoccupation with  crime and security -- a chief message of the Conservatives -- Blair has played  heavily on the law and order theme.
Blair's chief rival among Labour moderates is also a friend -- 43-year-old  Gordon Brown, the shadow chancellor.
Whether Blair and Brown will strike a leadership agreement, or battle one  another flat out for the number one spot, is still speculation, which may be  clarified when Brown addresses a Labour conference in Wales this weekend.
On the left of the party, John Prescott and Robin Cook are also seen as  contenders in the leadership election that should be held in July according to  the the new "one-member-one-vote" principle that Smith pushed through at the  annual meeting last October.
The new system accords one-third of the vote to Labour's 275 MPs and 45  Euro-MPs, one-third to Britain's 4.5 million union members, and one-third to  party members.
