Malawians descended on Blantyre's football  stadium Saturday for the inauguration of President-elect Bakili Muluzi after  joyful workers spent the night tearing down pictures and other references to  long-term ruler Hastings Kamuzu Banda.
"We didn't mind working overnight. It was actually a pleasure," said one  of the workers as he prepared to remove the words "Long Live Kamuzu,"  displayed for many years within the 60,000 seat Kamuzu Stadium.
"We want to erase anything to do with dictator Kamuzu. Everything was  Kamuzu in this country, but now things will have to change completely and we  dont want to build another Kamuzu in Muluzi," he said, amidst laughter from  his workmates.
Official portraits of Banda, who ruled with a rod of iron for three  decades, adorned all government offices and many private offices and homes,  but will have to be removed from Monday, a civil servant said.
"We shall relish to remove the portraits. You can't believe this is  happening in Malawi," he said.
But Muluzi has shown he will not be obsessed with removing Banda's names  on national institutions or chasing him away from the glamorous Sanjika palace.
He said he had told Banda -- who conceded defeat before the final count of  votes from Tuesday's election -- to stay on at the palace as long as he liked.
"We will look after him. He is an old man and nobody would want to push  him around," Muluzi said earlier this week.
One political analyst said while Banda's image would fade, people would be  looking at Muluzi carefully to see whether he would build a personality cult  and live a lavish and secretive lifestyle as Banda did.
"Muluzi will have to be careful because people will rush to compare him  and Banda," the analyst said.
"We need a break," said Atupele Mussa, a local leader of the Muluzi's  United Democratic Front party.
Muluzi, a businessman and former minister who heads United Democratic  Front, was to be sworn in at 2:00 p.m. (1200 GMT), along with his chosen vice  president, Justin Malewezi.
They will serve five-year terms.
Meanwhile, final official results from the presidential and parliamentary  elections were still awaited amid official acknowledgement of some voting  irregularities in the heavily-populated south of the country -- Muluzi's home  region.
But election commission president Anastazia Nsosa confirmed the strong  showing of the new president's party, which he said had so far won 84 of the  177 seats in parliament, compared to 52 for Banda's long-ruling Malawi  Congress Party and 36 for the opposition AFORD party.
