Uncertainties facing Russia are weighing heavily on  its neighbours, increasing feelings of insecurity in central Europe and the  Causcasus over Moscow's bid to extend its sphere of influence, an  international strategy report said Monday.
In its 1993-4 report published here Monday, the International Institute of  Strategic Studies (IISS), an independent think tank dealing with international  security issues, said Russia had experienced both extreme lows and highs in  the last 12 months.
The downside was clearly the "confrontation, ultimately bloody, between  president and parliament (and) ... an economy in crisis," the IISS said.
But the institute stressed that economic reforms were still on track and  that in single year the country had replaced its Soviet-era constitution and  parliament with new institutions worthy of a democracy.
On the internal political front, the institute predicted Moscow could  enter a "critical period" in the autumn, "the season for both the 1991 and  1993 attempted coups" against then Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev and  Russian head of state Boris Yeltsin.
And the onset of a hard winter could be "the signal to trigger desperate  politics".
The IISS said it was "highly likely that authoritarian tendencies will  strengthen", but predicted a continued rapprochement with the west.
"Russia can be expected to continue that slow march into the world from  which it has so often retreated, for this time the price of isolation appears  too high," it said.
Analysts of Moscow's foreign policy believed "Russia remains in the grip  of the identity crisis into which it had plunged in 1991," the report said.
Until the country decided where its borders began and ended "it will not  be able to decide where its strategic interests lie."
The IISS stressed: "Moscow does not wish to reconstitute the Soviet empire  because that would entail greater responsibilities and costs than it would  like or be able to bear."
But Moscow still wanted to ensure that its former satellites "act only  with Russian interests and desires in mind" and would if necessary "meddle in  their business, even militarily," to ensure such an outcome.
Former Soviet states, notably the Transcaucasian states of Armenia,  Azerbaijan and Georgia, were badly placed to resist such influence due to  difficulties "in learning to live at peace with their neighbours and with the  ethnic minorities within their own borders" the report said.
"Of nowhere might it more truly be said that if the states in the region  do not hang together, they will assuredly hang separately," it added.
The events of 1993 had also done little to make the countries between  Russia and Western Europe feel "relaxed and secure", as they felt trapped  between reassurances as to their status from the former and seeming  indifference from the latter.
From the Baltic to the Black Sea, countries, although not under direct  military threat, felt trapped in a "security vacuum" and unable to plan  collective policy with confidence.
Any regional military alliance "would only fan Russian paranoia without  creating solid safeguards against possible Russian aggression", the institute  said.
And economic unions of countries in the region also stood little chance,  because during the year it became apparent that they were "in no condition to  help one another economically but were each seeking aid themselves", the  report said.
(ATTENTION EMBARGO)
