Former Venezuelan president Carlos Andres Perez  was jailed Wednesday to face trial for allegedly skimming millions of dollars  from the public trough.
The Supreme Court ordered his detention after it finished compiling  evidence to begin a formal trial of the 71-year-old Perez, his former interior  minister Alejandro Izaguirre, and former foreign minister Reinaldo Figueredo  for embezzling and misuse of public funds worth 17.2 million dollars from an  interior ministry slush fund.
Perez, who was suspended from office in May 1993 and became Venezuela's  first president to be impeached in August, is the first leader in the Americas  to be imprisoned after being elected head of state.
"I am going to defend myself and demonstrate that there was no real reason  to suspend me as president, to remove me from the office the people entrusted  me with, or to jail me," a defiant Perez said.
A social democrat who presided over Venezuela's oil boom from 1974-1979  and tough economic times from 1989-1993, Perez also served as the Socialist  International's number two to Germany's Willy Brandt.
He survived widespread rioting in 1989 that left more than 300 dead and  two army coup attempts in 1992. Wednesday, dressed in a dark bue suit, he  appeared calm under hot midday sun outside the high court.
"I am being tried and jailed for political reasons," Perez said. "Those  who could not overthow me or force me to resign unleashed an implacable  campaign to force to leave the presidency and then put me on trial."
Perez and Izaguirre were whisked to the headquarters of the Judicial  Technical Police and were to be transferred from there to the El Junquito  jail, said chief justice Roberto Yepes Boscan.
Figueredo was at large, somewhere between the United States and Europe,  his attoney Beatriz Ditoto said. She said Figuredo would be in contact with  her soon and that he planned to try to take his case to international bodies.
"The international repercussions this is going to have are clear," Ditoto  said.
The Supreme Court began proceedings May 20 against the three, who were  accused of withdrawing money from the interior fund, converting it into  dollars and then keeping difference when the Venezuelan bolivar was  subsequently devalued.
Perez has insisted the funds were used for national security purposes that  he cannot disclose and his lawyers say it is up to the court to prove that the  money was misappropriated.
Defense Attorney Rafael Perez Perdomo dismissed reports that Perez used  the funds -- which were accessed in 1989 -- for "Operation Orchid" to provide  Venezuelan bodyguards to Violeta Chamorro, who was elected president of  Nicaragua in 1990.
Justice Hildegard de Sanso, who voted against opening the trial, said she  would not rule out the possibility Chamorro could be called to testify.
"If some elements of evidence surface during the trial, (Chamorro) could  be incriminated as the recipient of the funds Perez is being tried for" using,  de Sanso said.
In Managua, Nicaragua's foreign ministry issued a statement Wednesday  saying allegations of Chamorro's involvement were "completely groundless."  Last month, Chamorro issued an official statement saying "these allegations  are totally false."
The 11-4 court ruling clears the way for a formal trial against Perez and  his aides, which could take as long as 12 months, experts said.
Izaguirre was jailed along with Perez. The former president is entitled to  house arrest because he is more than 70 years old, but he is not requesting it.
Interior Minister Ramon Escovar, who brought the initial charges against  Perez when he served as attorney general, said the Supreme Court's order  demonstrated that Venezuela was sincere about rooting out corruption.
"This is not an act of hostility or revenge, but a judicial move with all  the form and substance of the law," he said.
Arrest warrants were issued for two other officials charged in the case,  Carlos Vera Aristigueta and Oscar Barreto.
