Britain was in a frenzy Wednesday over a  flesh-eating mutant bacterium blamed for as many as 12 deaths this year, but  reports from Europe and elsewhere indicated the bug had been around for years  without causing panic.
The object of attention was a strain of the garden-variety streptococcus-A  bacterium that causes sore throats, but which, altered by a virus, releases  toxins that attack tissue with a virulent gangrene-like infection.
The condition is called necrotizing fasciitis, and medical experts say  that at its worst it can eat through human tissue rapidly and kill within  hours.
Six new deaths from the infection were reported Wednesday, bringing to 12  the number confirmed in Britain since January.
"It is a horrid organism and it can cause absolute devastation in a matter  of hours," said Doctor Matthew Dryden, a microbiologist at Royal Hampshire  County Hospital in southwest England, where a man died of the infection in  March and a woman in April.
It was the stuff of headline writers' dreams, and a tourist scanning the  London newsstands Wednesday might have made a bee-line for the airport.
"Mystery Bug Kills Three More."
"Flesh-Eater On The Move."
"Rampant Tissue-Destroying Disease."
"I Watched Killer Bug Eat My Body."
But in Berlin, spokesman Gernot Rasch of the German health agency BGA said  Germany normally has 30-40 cases of necrotizing fasciitis a year, about half  of them fatal.
He said precise figures were not available because it was not considered  serious enough to require doctors to report it.
A spokesman for the Dutch health ministry in The Hague said 21 persons had  died of necrotizing fasciitis in the Netherlands over the past 18 months out  of a total of 132 infected.
He said the condition was not considered epidemic.
The Belgian health ministry in Brussels reported six dead out of a total  of 17 cases since 1993, and said an investigation showed "no cause for alarm."
In Switzerland, the Public Health Office in Bern said the country had about  a dozen fatalities a year from necrotizing fasciitis, but said it was not  considered a communicable disease and no figures were available because it was  not reportable.
New Zealand health authorities in Wellington said the infection had killed  one person and affected two others in the past year, adding there was no cause  for alarm.
And a spokesman for the World Health Organization (WHO) in Geneva said it  had counted 166 reports worldwide of the infection in trade journals and other  publications during the past five years.
"That does not mean 166 cases," he said. "Each report could have been  speaking about two or 30 various cases."
As reports of deaths in Britain from the infection in past months trickled  in, government health authorities sought to counterbalance the press panic by  allaying public fears of an epidemic.
Norman Begg, deputy director of the Public Health Laboratory Services  Communicable Diseases Surveillance Centre, said every suspected case of the  killer bug was now being followed up in a national investigation.
"As far as the general public is concerned there is no need for panic," he  said. "Patients that do develop this condition do become very ill and GPs are  not going to mis-diagnose them and fail to send them to hospital."
"At the moment we've got no evidence that this particular disease, or  indeed other infections due to streptoccocus, is increasing in the country at  the moment," he said.
