Australia Friday welcomed US President Bill  Clinton's renewal of China's Most-Favored-Nation status, which it had urged  along with the uncoupling of the trading privileges from human rights.
Foreign Minister Gareth Evans said in a statement Friday that while  Canberra shared US concern for human rights in China, "We consider it unlikely  that withdrawal of MFN (Most-Favored-Nation) status would have significantly  advanced the human rights cause in China."
Evans had warned US Secretary of State Warren Christopher during a visit  here in March that denial of MFN status would have "a very adverse economic  impact" on the region, particularly Hong Kong, with a negative ripple effect  for Australia.
Canberra said pressure on China to make human rights improvements in order  to get MFN status again had appeared counterproductive, with change in China  being more grudging than it might otherwise have been.
"Trade and investment is playing a catalytic role in China's economic  reform through the introduction of ideas, capital, technology and foreign  exchange," Evans said.
Economic growth and liberalisation would "generate their own momentum for  political liberalisation," he said.
"The Australian government agrees with President Clinton's sentiment that,  if we are serious about improving human rights, the best path is now to  intensify and broaden engagement between the US and China," Evans said.
Clinton announced the decision Thursday, saying he would impose limited  sanctions to pressure Beijing to continue to improve human rights.
In a statement echoing the view of trade analysts here, opposition trade  spokesman Tim Fischer said the US decision was correct and that withdrawal of  MFN status would have threatened Australia's trade, especially in wool.
"China has been extremely successful in value-adding to its purchases of  Australian wool and in marketing woollen clothing in the US.
"This outcome is clearly a breakthrough for US trade policy that was  showing signs of faltering, and will be welcomed by Australia's wool growers."
