"I don't want to be misunderstood about this. China continues to commit  very serious human rights abuses. Even as we engage the Chinese on military,  political and economic issues, we intend to stay engaged with those in China  who suffer from human rights abuses. The United States must remain a champion  of their liberties.
"I believe the question, therefore, is not whether we continue to support  human rights in China but how we can best support human rights in China and  advance our other very significant issues and interests. I believe we can do  it by engaging the Chinese.
"I believe the course I have chosen gives us the best chance of success on  all fronts. We will have more contacts. We will have more trade. We will have  more international cooperation. We will have more intense and constant  dialogue on human rights issues -- we will have that in an atmosphere which  gives us the chance to see China evolve as a responsible power, ever growing,  not only economically, but growing in political maturity so that human rights  can be observed.
"To those who argue that in view of China's human rights abuses we should  revoke MFN status, let me ask you the same question that I have asked myself  over and over these last few weeks as I have studied this issue and consulted  people of both parties who have had experience with China over many decades:  Will we do more to advance the cause of human rights if China is isolated or  if our nations are engaged in a growing web of political and economic  cooperation and contacts?
"I am persuaded that the best path for advancing freedom in China is for  the United States to intensify and broaden its engagement with that nation. I  think we have to see our relations with China within the broader context of  our policies in the Asian-Pacific region, a region that, after all, includes  our own nation.
"This week we've seen encouraging developments; progress on resolving  trade frictions with the Japanese and possible progress towards stopping North  Korea's nuclear program. I am determined to see that we maintain an active  role in this region in both its dynamic economic growth and in its security."
