Italy's former Christian Democrat rulers on Tuesday  demanded that new prime minister Silvio Berlusconi sack the five neo-fascists  in his government, on the eve of a key confidence vote in the Italian Senate.
In a policy statement to parliament on Monday, Berlusconi conceded  "legitimate concerns" over the presence of the five neo-fascists but pledged  his right-wing coalition would adhere to Italy's democratic structures.
However by Tuesday, the statement appeared not have been enough to have  swung over the centrist parties and his government was still eight votes short  of an absolute majority of the 324 senators one day before the vote.
Nicola Mancino, the head of the Italian Popular Party (PPI), comprised of  the former Christian Democrats, instead urged a "change in the majority,"  proposing that Berlusconi drop the neo-fascist National Alliance to move in  with the centrist and some leftwing parties.
Mancino said the National Alliance, created by Gianfranco Fini, the  general secretary of the neo-fascist Italian Social Movement, was "a source of  concern."
He also called Berlusconi to divest himself of private business interests  within "one or two months at the most" in order to limit any conflicts of  interest for the millionaire media magnate and politician.
Berlusconi's Fininvest communications group is Italy's third largest  business with interest ranging from television and the media to AC Milan  football club.
Reacting to Mancino's calls, Fini said the PPI leader was "nostalgic and  had not resigned himself to the verdict of the voters on March 27," -- the  first day of voting in Italy's two-day elections.
The PPI saw its vote slashed in the polls as voters turned their backs on  the party following a series of corruption scandals in Italian politics.
The National Alliance's under secretary of state at the interior ministry,  Maurizio Gasparri, meanwhile dismissed the PPI's threat not to support the  government if its demands were not met as unlikely to be carried out in  practice.
If the government does not win the confidence vote, he predicted, "we will  return to the polls. We will win more votes and this time the PPI will  disappear."
