Colombians went to the polls amid tight security  Sunday to choose a sucessor to President Cesar Gaviria, who weathered wars  with drug lords and leftist guerrillas during his four-year term.
Voting was peaceful but police and troops were guarding against rebel  violence after six people were killed Saturday in fighting between government  and guerrilla forces.
Police and military authorities have deployed over 200,000 troops to keep  the peace. The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and the National  Liberation Army (ELN), the country's two main rebel groups, have vowed to  sabotage the elections.
Ernesto Samper, 43, of the ruling Liberal Party, and Andres Pastrana, 39,  of the Conservative Party, were in a tight race when the polls opened at 8  a.m. (13H00 GMT). The pair led a field of 18 candidates.
But analysts said the elections could be forced into a runoff -- the  country's first -- since neither candidate appeared positioned to win the  required majority. If there is a runoff, it would be held June 19.
Polls indicate that the two frontrunners will share 90 percent of the  vote. Third place is expected to go to Antonio Navarro of the M-19 movement, a  former guerrilla army. Surveys give him the support of five percent of the  electorate.
Samper has national experience as development minister under Gaviria.  Pastrana is a journalist and the son of former president Misael Pastrana.
Their platforms differ mainly on economics, with Samper more cautious  about the pace of selling off state-owned businesses and lifting trade  barriers than Pastrana, who has campaigned as a gung-ho free-marketeer.
Gaviria, a Liberal, leaves office at 47 with an unusually high 60 percent  approval rating. The constitution bars the president from serving a second  consecutive four-year term.
Voters will also be electing a vice president for the first time in  Colombia.
The defense ministry said the fighting Saturday broke out in the  departments of Caqueta, Huila and Antioquia. Three rebels, two army troops and  one civilian were killed, the ministry reported.
Electoral authorities cancelled voting at polling stations in 20 remote  districts along the Caribbean coast because of rebel threats, officials said.
Problems with transporting election officials in some of the northern  cities in Colombia also hindered voting.
Despite the fighting, the campaign was peaceful by Colombian standards. In  the 1990 presidential election, three candidates were assassinated, including  the frontrunner, the Liberal Party's Luis Carlos Galan.
Gaviria and other officials urged Colombia's 17 million eligible voters to  turn out, and reverse a traditionally high abstention rate, which reached a  record high of 70 percent in March legislative elections.
Polls will close at 16H00 (21H00 GMT) and the government agency in charge  of overseeing the process expects initial returns around 23H00 (03H00 GMT).
The media, which traditionally give immediate projections when the polls  close, will be restricted to broadcasting official indications from the  election panel.
