Japanese electronics and entertainment giant Sony  Corp. said Thursday its consolidated pre-tax earnings rose 10 percent from a  year earlier to 102 billion yen (990 million dollars) in the year to March.
But the company, which has been adversely affected by the strong yen and  recession in key markets, said worldwide sales slipped seven percent to 3,733  billion yen in the same period, depressed by lower revenue from Europe, the  United States and Japan.
Sony said the bigger consolidated profit reflected higher foreign exchange  gains of 35 billion yen, up from 22 billion yen, a steep jump in earnings from  its audio-visual subsidiary Aiwa Co. Ltd. and lower interest payments.
The company forecast sharply higher group earnings of 125 billion yen for  the current year with sales climbing to 3,990 trillion yen.
Sony officials also announced plans to counter the strong yen by further   expanding offshore production from 36 percent of the total at the end of March  to 45 percent in the current year and 50 percent at a later stage.
The expansion will focus on audio-visual products in Asia and computer  peripherals in the United States, the officials said.
"We expect conditions to remain severe in the current year with  instability in foreign exchange rates, delays in economic recovery in Japan  and Europe and escalating competition in the audio-visual market," a statement  said.
Sony said its operating profit dropped 21 percent to 100 billion yen as a  result of the stronger yen, which shaved 501 billion yen off total sales.
During the year, overseas sales dropped 8.6 percent to 2,710 billion yen  while domestic sales fell 0.4 percent to 1,023 billion yen.
European sales plunged 19.9 percent to 833 billion yen and sales in the  United States fell 5.1 percent to 1,154 billion yen but sales in other areas  including Asia grew two percent to 723 billion yen.
"In Japan, sales were almost unchanged despite a delay in the recovery of  the audio-visual equipment market.
"In the United States, sales of computer-related equipment and music picked  up on the overall economic recovery there. But because of the higher yen,  sales were down. In Asia, sales of color television sets and electronic  devices were brisk," the company said.
Electronics revenue dropped 6.9 percent to 2,944 billion yen, depressed by  lower sales in virtually all of of Sony's product categories. Entertainment  revenue was down five percent at 789 billion yen with increased music sales  offset by reduced revenue from movies.
"Global sales of video equipment dropped because of the sharp appreciation  of the yen and the slowing portable video recorder market.
"Sales of audio equipment were supported by the introduction of Mini  Disc-related products and car-navigation systems. But the sluggish market in  European nations depressed worldwide sales in the audio sector," it said.
In the electronics sector, video sales plunged 19.3 percent to 668 billion  yen, audio sales fell 9.4 percent to 841 billion yen and sales of television  sets dropped 2.5 percent to 618 billion yen. But sales of other products,  including electronic devices, were up 5.9 percent at 817 billion yen.
In the entertainment sector, music sales grew 3.4 percent to 462 billion  yen, supported by sales of Maria Carey's latest album, which sold 10 million  copies. Billy Joel's latest album sold six million copies and strong sales  were also reported for Michael Bolton and Michael Jackson.
But movie revenue tumbled 14.8 percent to less than 328 billion yen. Sony  said the stronger yen eroded profits from such box-office hits as  "Cliffhanger", "Philadelphia" and "Secret Service."
