The state prosecutor in the north-eastern  city of Ravenna officially launched an inquiry Monday into the role of four  executives of the Mediobanca banking group in a major corruption scandal,  judicial sources said.
The bank is suspected of knowing about financial irregularities at  Ferruzzi-Montedison, Italy's second largest private industrial group, before  mounting a rescue plan in early 1993 to prevent it from going bankrupt.
The prosecutor wants to find out if Mediobanca knew of undeclared bad  debts worth 400 billion lira (250 million dollars), accorded to off-shore  companies registered in the Caribbean and elsewhere, and whether it tried to  get the debts registered in the company's 1992 financial reports.
Enrico Cuccia, Mediobanca's honorary president, executive director  Vincenzo Maranghi, financial director Gerardo Bragiotti and investment  director Maurizio Romiti are all to be investigated and could be charged with  complicity in false communications, the source said.
The hole in Ferruzzi-Montedison's accounts was revealed last June by Carlo  Sama, the former head of the group, at a shareholders' meeting.
Two reports by Mediobanca have said the bank was responsible for the  group's restructuring but had no power over its internal administration.
Documents dating back to May and June last year were seized from  Mediobanca's Milan headquarters on May 20 by legal officials acting for the  state prosecutor.
Sama, married into the Ferruzzi family and brother-in-law of  Ferruzzi-Montedison's former managing director Raul Gardini, said Cuccia had  been aware of falsification of the group's accounts resulting from Gardini's  management of the group until 1991.
Gardini committed suicide in July 1993.
Sama also accused Cuccia of using his knowledge to force the family to  withdraw from the management and of blocking a rescue plan by freezing the  group's assets.
In June 1993, Ferruzzi-Montedison was on the point of folding because of  debts worth 30,000 billion lira (18.7 billion dollars). The Ferruzzi family  agreed on a rescue plan formed by five creditor banks, led by Mediobanca.
