Tobacco giant Philip Morris, in a shift of  tactics, is backing a California referendum that would limit smoking in public  places but standardize a hodgepodge of local ordinances.
The largest US tobacco company has been collecting signatures in an effort  to place the "California Uniform Tobacco Control Act" on the ballot in  November, and claims to have enough to place the initiative before voters.
Philip Morris spokesman Lee Stitzenberger said the proposal represents  "the toughest statewide smoking restrictions in the United States," but also  would "stop the confusion we have here in California."
In Los Angeles, Philip Morris says the situation is especially perplexing,  noting that one hotel straddling two jurisdictions has different smoking laws  in different parts of the building.
The measure, if approved, would ban vending machine sales of cigarettes to  persons under the age of 18, but would also allow restaurants to set aside up  to 25 percent of their floor space to smokers, provided the rooms are  adequately ventilated.
Smoking has been banned in Los Angeles restaurants under a city ordinance  since last summer, and San Francisco has a similarly restrictive anti-smoking  measure in effect.
Anti-smoking activists have denounced the initiative, claiming the company  has misled voters.
"They've passed around a pro-smoking petition that they deliberately  mislabeled a 'tobacco control act,'" said Julia Carol of Americans for  Non-Smokers' Rights.
Other anti-tobacco activists fear that if the proposal is adopted, it  could become a model for other states and reverse the trend in efforts to  restrict smoking in public places.
California has been in the lead of anti-smoking legislation, which has  been copied by several other states. According to a recent study, smoking in  California has dropped 30 percent since 1988, when the first statewide  restrictions went into effect, compared with a 10 percent drop nationwide.
The US Congress is studying several proposals to ban smoking in most  buildings used by the public.
Stitzenberger said Philip Morris has spent 500,000 dollars on the  California effort, which he said has the support of a number of hotel and  restaurant owners. Other tobacco companies have declined to join the effort.
State officials say however the petition drive could be jeopardized if  voters who signed the measure were misinformed.
"We have received hundreds of calls an letters complaining about the  tactics" being used, said Melissa Warren, assistant secretary of state for  California, who noted that the initiative could be disqualified if there is  "sufficient cause."
