Cash-strapped North Korea Friday unveiled  regulations that will give foreigners fairly wide latitude in setting up  enterprises and ports in its projected free trade zone.
The hardline communist state's official Korean Central News Agency (KCNA),  monitored here, said the North Korean administrative council had endorsed the  regulations in the past two months.
Foreigners will be allowed to set up a wide range of wholly owned  enterprises but will not be allowed in sensitive media sectors, the KCNA said.
Wholly foreign-owned enterprises will be allowed in "electronics,  automation, machine building, power industries, food processing, garments,  everyday consumer goods manufacturing industries, building materials,  pharmaceuticals, chemical industries, construction, transportation, services  and other necessary sectors," according to the implementing regulations of the  law on wholly foreign-owned enterprises.
But foreigners will not be allowed to set up wholly owned enterprises in  publishing, the press and broadcasting, or telecommunications, KCNA said.
North Korea, increasingly isolated over its suspected nuclear weapons  programme and in need of cash and technology from industrialised nations to  spur its stagnant economy, worked out legislation in 1984 on joint ventures  with foreign enterprises.
In 1991, it designated its northeastern frontier as a "free economic and  trade zone."
But poor infrastructure and political uncertainty have discouraged  foreigners from investing in the self-proclaimed "workers' paradise," although  it is endowed with a cheap and disciplined labor force.
Another set of regulations on free trade ports were set to ensure  "economic and trade activities like transport and storage of transit cargoes  and to set up the order of traffic and usage of the free trade ports," KCNA  said.
The regulations set aside Rajin, Sonbong and Chongjin, all facing the Sea  of Japan near North Korea's border with Russia, as free trade ports.
"For the purpose of economic activities and tourism, vessels, sailors,  passengers and cargoes are allowed to have free access to the free trade port  regardless of nationality, place of departure and place of origin," KCNA said.
Last December, North Korea painfully admitted that its seven-year plan for  1987-1993 had failed to reach target and it set the focus over the next three  years would be on economic readjustment.
President Kim Il-Sung has declared that his country should give top  priority to agriculture, light industry and foreign trade in the coming years.
