Almost one quarter of Hungary's  eight-million-strong electorate had voted by mid-morning Sunday in the  country's second democratic election since the fall of communism in 1989, but  polling was sluggish compared to the first round three weeks ago.
About one third of voters had cast their ballots at the same stage of the  first round, where 50 percent of the electorate had to vote for the result to  be valid.
With just 25 percent having to turn up second time round, the electoral  commission believed the threshold would be easily cleared.
The Socialist Party (MSZP), made up of former communists and led by former  foreign minister Gyula Horn, was looking to consolidate its strong performance  at the first ballot, where it captured 57 direct seats and was headed for an  absolute majority.
Horn, badly hurt in a car accident shortly before the first round, cast  his ballot in Budapest having refused to vote in hospital. He has expressed  interest in becoming prime minister if invited.
In contrast, the Democratic Forum (MDF), the main component in the  outgoing conservative government, was crushed in the first round, where it  obtained just one seat.
The country's 10,800 polling booths opened early in driving rain but, as  the morning wore on, a steady stream of people turned up to vote. On May 8, 69  percent of the electorate voted.
The key question regarding Sunday's vote was whether voters would again  give their overwhelming support to the MSZP, plump for the liberal Alliance of  Free Democrats (SZDSZ), headed by 43-year-old economist Gabor Kuncze, or even  swing back towards the MDF, now resigned to a period in opposition.
The outcome of 259 of a total of 386 seats depended on the second round  vote, with 174 to be decided by simple majority in individual constituencies,  provided participation is at least 25 percent.
The remaining 85 slots will be assigned according to a proportional  distribution scheme.
Observers were expecting a coalition of the MSZP and the SZDSZ as the most  likely result, with Horn and Kuncze vying for the premiership.
Both parties have cautioned it would take them around two years to bring  about a marked improvement in the people's standard of living.
The polling institute Szonda has predicted the socialists will end up with  between 175 and 208 seats and the Alliance of Free Democrats will take between  67 and 86. The absolute majority is 194.
Polling stations were to close at 7:00 p.m. (1700 GMT) and early returns on  the basis of exit polls were expected minutes later.
