The world's top players have sent American teenager  Jennifer Capriati a message of support from the French Open Tennis  Championships here.
Capriati, 18, a former Olympic champion and top-ten player, has not been  seen in public since her recent arrest for possessing marijuana. She was  reported to be at a drug rehabilitation centre in Florida.
Her predicament has fired the debate over 'burn-out' -- young players  being thrust into the spotlight too soon.
Capriati was just 14 years old when she reached the semi-finals on her  French Open debut in 1990.
World number-one Steffi Graf, chasing her fifth consecutive Grand Slam  title, spent most of Monday trying to contact Capriati and her parents.
"All the players are trying to send her a message but so far it has been  impossible to contact any of the family," she said.
Graf, herself a teenage prodigy who turned professional at 13, said: "I  can only speak for myself, and for me it was the right decision to start  playing on the tour that young. There was no competition for me any more in  the juniors.
"I have played twelve years of tournaments and I have had no problems and  I don't think the burn-out issue is as widespread as many try to say.
"But obviously I was very upset and sad when I heard what had hapened to  Jennifer.
"But maybe something positive will come out of it all. Maybe it will be a  turning point for her. Hopefully something positive will come out of it all."
Mary Pierce, whose career was disturbed by family problems, said: "We want  to tell her we are all behind her and let her know that we are supporting her  and that we wish her all the best."
The Canadian-born French player's father Jim was banned from all women's  tournaments after being expelled from Roland Garros 12 months ago for causing  a disturbance in the stands.
"In my case, I don't think about those troubled times any more. I am very  happy with my life on and off court. I still speak to my father occasionally  on the phone but I haven't seen him since December," added Pierce who is only  ten months older than Capriati.
Former world champion Martina Navratilova, 37, whose farewell appearance  at the famous clay-court event ended in a shock first-round loss to Miriam  Oremans of the Netherlands, said: "I think what happened to Jennifer was  inevitable the way things were going. Hopefully this will nip it in the bud.  Let's hope this is rock-bottom for her.
"As the song says, when you hit rock bottom there are only two ways to go  -- sideways and straight up. Let's hope she realises she was self-destructing  and gets her life together again.
"Whether she will ever play again we'll just have to wait and see."
The World's Tennis Association is currently reviewing its guidelines and  regulations concerning young players and their entry to the senior tour.
At the moment a player is allowed to play three tournaments at 13 years of  age and ten events at 14.
