Foreign ministers of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM)  -- facing wars in Yemen, Rwanda and Bosnia -- meet here Tuesday with South  Africa taking part for the first time.
Eighty-five countries are sending their foreign ministers for the four-day  conference, including Alfred Nizo for South Africa following its first  all-race elections, Egyptian officials said.
A Serbian request to take part in the conference is to be examined on  Monday at the level of senior officials, but it is unlikely to be approved,  said an Egyptian diplomatic source.
Yugoslavia was a key member of NAM before its break-up.
But Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Mussa has accused Serbia of violating  international law and opposes Belgrade taking part in meetings of the  108-nation movement.
Apart from Serbia, NATO countries as well as Russia have asked for  observer status.
On the agenda will be conflicts threatening several member states, such as  Yemen, Rwanda and Bosnia.
The delegates have to choose a new country to host the next NAM summit and  chair the group of developing countries, following Indonesia whose three-year  term ends in September 1995.
So far no country has announced its candidacy, although Latin American  states have been lobbying for the position since the region last hosted the  summit in 1979, in Cuba.
The diplomatic source said Iran could run as chairman. Its foreign  minister, Ali Akbar Velayati, is to attend the Cairo conference although Egypt  and Iran do not have diplomatic relations.
The conference will also set up a committee to re-examine the role of NAM  with the end of the Cold War and superpower rivalry. Both Egypt and Indonesia  are expected to submit documents outlining their vision of the future.
Cairo had proposed that NAM be integrated into the Group of 77 developing  countries and lobby bloc at the United Nations, but the majority of members  turned down the proposal.
The repercussions of the GATT free-trade accords are also on the agenda of  the conference, which is to wind up with a Cairo declaration on a list of  political and economic issues.
