He praised the support of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher,  who alone in the Commonwealth opposed sanctions against the South African  government's apartheid policies, and who joined in a standing ovation for de  Klerk at Friday night's Nobel laureate lecture.
De Klerk and Mandela shared last year's Nobel Peace Prize.
"I always opposed sanctions because they had a devastatingly negative  effect on the interests of all South Africans," de Klerk said. "It was not  sanctions, but an inner conviction, that brought about change."
A Soweto resident who said he had "suffered" under apartheid asked de  Klerk whether there should be indemnity and amnesty or retribution.
"Many people were killed from both sides," said de Klerk. "Innocent  civilians died also, by bombs planted in supermarkets by the ANC (Mandela"s  African National Congress)..."
But he said there could be no real reconciliation "unless we make peace  about the past. Mr. Mandela and I...have taken hands. We are working together.  Some way or another, all South Africans must take hands, and reach out to the  future.
"I'm not asking of anybody to forget," he said. "But all Christians know  that they cannot ask for forgiveness if they cannot find it in their own  hearts to forgive."
De Klerk is serving as one of two deputy presidents under Mandela  following the ANC's victory in last month's all-race elections. He played a  key role, as president, in dismantling apartheid.
On the surface, he said, it might seem that little had changed but, "in  fact, a whole epoch has passed.
"We South Africans find ourselves at the beginning of a new and daunting  era. Our mood is full of hope...trepidation and, surprisingly, full of  goodwill for one another."
He said there was little chance of South Africa falling into the "Africa  syndrome" of poverty, deterioration, nepotism and corruption.
There are, he said, "vast differences between us and any other African  country. Our economy is incomparably larger and more varied...We have a large  and growing middle class of all races...We enjoy advantages which many of our  fellow Africans never had."
Infrastructure, natural resources, cheap power and high level of education,  said de Klerk, would attract foreign investment to South Africa and transform  it into a gleaming star of prosperity on an impoverished continent.
"The international community is now with us and not against us," he said.  "South Africa is once again a full and honored member of the international  community."
