Southern Yemen's air power,  courtesy of the former Soviet Union, has thwarted Yemeni President Ali  Abdallah Saleh's battle plan of a quick capture of the southern bastion of  Aden.
More than 100 MiG-21, Mig-23, and Sukhoi warplanes have flown sorties each  day, mainly from Aden airport, to keep the president's northern troops at bay.
The bombers, supplied by the Soviet Union in the days of pre-unification  South Yemen, have the terrain in their favour.
They are defending against an enemy which, now that it has broken through  the mountain passes, is exposed on the flatlands, notably on the frontline  north of the port city of Aden.
"That's why the northern forces are having trouble advancing" in the two  weeks since they seized the key southern military base of Al-Anad, 60  kilometres (35 miles) from Aden, said a diplomat in the region. "They are  totally uncovered."
The same goes for the western and eastern fronts, where the well-trained  southern air force has kept the northerners pinned down.
General Saleh also has a strong air force, but most of his 70 fighters  have been kept on the ground, apparently because Aden oil refinery has cut off  supplies to the north.
From the earliest stages of the civil war, which erupted on May 5 after  nine months of political crisis between Saleh and his southern rival Ali Salem  al-Baid, the north boasted that Aden was on the verge of falling.
And yet Aden's airport is still operational, even though missile and air  attacks have closed it to civilian flights, as is its vital refinery and its  port, albeit at a slower rate.
After the initial shock, the south has reorganized its troops to resist an  army which is numerically superior.
"A son who has been beaten up by his father will stop obeying him in the  end," southern Colonel Mohammad Abdallah told AFP at the warfront to the east  of Aden.
Southerners, generally fiercely opposed to the war, charge that the  conservative, tribal north had tried to dominate and annex the formerly  Marxist south since the country was unified on May 22, 1990.
On May 21, the eve of the fourth anniversary of united Yemen, Baid  declared a separate state in the south, the Yemen Democratic Republic (YDR).
The United Nations, at the prompting of neighbours Saudi Arabia and Oman,  is trying to arrange a ceasefire but Saleh is still after a military solution  to keep Yemen united and wants the international community to stay out.
Anis Hassan Yahia, chairman of the Provisional Assembly of National  Salvation, the YDR's week-old caretaker parliament, sent a message to  Jordanian parliamentary speaker Taher al-Masri on Saturday, an official source  in Aden said.
Yahia asked for the "rapid intervention" of Jordan, which brokered an  unheeded peace accord last February, with the aim of "stopping the war,  returning the warring armies to their original positions and starting  immediate negotiations without preconditions under the aegis of the Arab  League."
