President Robert Mugabe lashed out at white  Zimbabweans on Friday, accusing them of supporting opposition parties in an  attempt to regain power behind a black front.
Setting the stage for his ruling ZANU-PF party's campaign for elections  next year, Mugabe told some 6,000 delegates to a party youth conference that  while the opposition was "ineffectual" it should not be ignored.
"Underlying this so-called opposition is a vain attempt to resurrect  internal settler politics where white colonial settlers hide behind black  faces.
"This phenomenon, while despicable, is not unexpected," he said.
Returning to a theme which he and his Vice-President Joshua Nkomo have  repeatedly stressed recently, Mugabe blamed "disgruntled and embittered"  whites for trying to undermine "people-oriented socio-economic programmes."
This is in sharp contrast to the praise Nkomo and other Zimbabwean  ministers have heaped on whites in neighbouring South Africa after the  inauguration of Nelson Mandela as that country's first black president.
They have held them up as an example of racial reconciliation while  berating Zimbabwe's 100,000 whites -- who make up around one percent of the  population -- for allegedly maintaining a separate identity and failing to be  assimilated as true Zimbabweans after 14 years of independence.
That this is something of an irony after the Zimbabwean government led  Africa in its expressions of hatred against the white-minority government in  Pretoria was pointed out by the black-owned independent Financial Gazette a  day before Mugabe made his speech.
"It is laughable to suggest that Zimbabwe's whites are a close-knit ethnic  group or that they hope to make a comeback to power," the paper said, pointing  out that they have nothing to gain from the failure of the country's rulers as  "they will go to the wall with them."
"We should all resist with all our might a damaging propagation of race  hatred," a columnist wrote.
Mugabe said some Zimbabwean whites  -- who wield economic power  disproportionate to their numbers -- were particularly opposed to the  government's economic empowerment of blacks, and were thus sponsoring  opposition parties.
Attacking the Forum party and the Zimbabwe Unity Movement (ZUM), which are  his party's main challengers, Mugabe referred to Zimbabwe's history of war  against white-minority rule which ended when he and his party swept to power  in independence elections in 1980.
"Are we then in a positition to say having suffered so much, having  sacrificed so much and having died so much, time has come for us to rest, make  way for the Forums and ZUMs that the white men are putting forward?
"Is this not the time for the youth of the country to come forward and say  never shall counter-revolutionaries and reactionaries take over?" Mugabe asked.
Admitting that ordinary citizens had been hit by unemployment and other  economic hardships, Mugabe --  who has been accused of using whites as the  whipping-boy for his government's failures -- said his party was struggling to  make a better life for the majority of Zimbabweans.
