The uncanny ability to produce the goods at the right moment is the  product of an unshakeable self-belief forged while battling to save a career  nearly wrecked when he mangled his right knee playing for Vicenza in 1985.
"Every doctor in Italy told me I was finished," he recalls. "Deep inside  myself I knew that it was not true. Even in my hospital bed I knew I would  come back.
Revolutionary surgery in France saved Baggio's career but not without  cost. There was a suspicion, when Baggio missed a couple of Juventus games  late this season, that more surgery had been postponed to let him play in the  United States.
Even if he does not have to go under the knife again, Baggio lives daily  with his injury. The need to keep the muscle around the knee permanently in  prime condition means he has to train twice as hard as his teammates. A gym  specially installed at his house makes it more convenient but cannot change  the reality that as long as Baggio plays football he can never have a day off.
He has hinted that although only 27 this could be his last World Cup --  but Baggio seems more capable than most of coping with it.
When it all gets too much, he heads for the tranquility of the Tuscan  hills to indulge his passion for hunting.
"Football can make you mad. You always have to remember that. I am  grateful for what it has given me but I have to have my peace and hunting  gives me that, the time to be alone and get away from football."
It was the battle to stay in the game that prompted Baggio's conversion to  Buddhism. "Through it I found the equilibrium to believe in myself," he says.
"Buddhism has changed me profoundly inside and made me happier, but as far  as the rest of the world is concerned, I'm still the same person I always was.
"In my everyday life I'm an ordinary person like millions of others except  that I do a job in the public eye."
Current national coach Arrigo Sacchi agrees.
"Roberto never behaves like a star, off the field or on it. He knows how  good he is, but he never tries to play for himself," he says.
