Sudanese President Omar el Beshir on Friday blamed  rebel leader John Garang and "foreign intervention" for the country's  lingering civil war, and said Garang never kept promises made during peace  talks.
Addressing reporters here ahead of a new round of talks to open Monday in  the Kenyan capital, Beshir said: "The problem here is Garang personally."
He said it was easier to negotiate with Riek Mashar, Garang's former  deputy in the rebel Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) who broke away in  1991 to form an SPLA splinter group called SPLA United.
With Riek's faction, Beshir said agreements remained valid, whereas  Garang's group went back on its commitments.
"With Garang's group ... they do not recognise the agreements which we  reached in each session of negotiations," said Beshir, the leader of Sudan's  Islamic fundamentalist military government which is fighting mainly Christian  and animist southern rebels.
"In negotiations with other groups, we find that we negotiate on all  issues on the agenda and everything that we agree on continues to be valid,"  Beshir said.
Riek's split from Garang triggered an internal war between the two  southern factions, divided along tribal lines.
Riek has repeatedly denied Garang's accusations that he grants government  soldiers safe passage through his territory to attack Garang's troops.
Beshir, in Nairobi for the African Development Bank's 30th anniversary  celebrations, will not take part in the forthcoming peace talks, at the which  the government will be represented by parliamentary speaker Mohamed al-Amin  Khalifa.
Riek and Garang will send a joint delegation, and both were expected to  attend the opening session Monday, according to rebel sources.
Khartoum launched a massive offensive against the south at the beginning  of the year, sending warplanes and tens of thousands of soldiers against the  rag-tag rebel guerrillas.
Khartoum apparently conceived the offensive as a final push to crush the  southern rebellion draining its already overstretched coffers, diplomats said.
But the government forces seem to be have got bogged down and have failed  to drive the rebels out of the south or cut their supply lines from Uganda.
Beshir also blamed the rebels for a failure to agree on opening safe  corridors for relief supplies to millions of southerners hit by famine,  stemming mainly from the displacement of huge populations by the decades-old  conflict between north and south.
Beshir said one of main obstacles to peace was "foreign intervention," by  unnamed countries bankrolling the rebels. "The leaders of the rebel movements  do not control their decisions," he said.
He added that a dispute with Eritrea, which last year accused Sudan of  sponsoring Islamic fundamentalist groups that launched cross-border raids into  Eritrea, had been resolved.
He blamed an Eritrean faction opposed to the country's government for the  attacks and said Sudan had curtailed its activities following talks with  Eritrean representatives who recently visited Khartoum.
