Australia's embattled opposition leader John Hewson   announced a ballot for his job Friday, throwing down a gauntlet that was  immediately picked up by two of his foremost challengers.
Ending days of frenzied speculation about his future, he told a media  conference here he had called a special party meeting for 2:30 p.m. (0430 GMT)  Monday, and had declared all leadership positions vacant.
"I think I will win quite well," said the former economics professor who  as leader of the Liberal Party also heads the conservative coalition  opposition in which the country-based National Party is junior partner.
In an open letter to "Liberals and all Australians," Hewson said: "What is  at stake is not so much the future of John Hewson as the future of the Liberal  Party itself."
Hours after the announcement, Treasury spokesman Alexander Downer and  finance spokesman Peter Costellow announced they would run on a combined   ticket for the party's leadership.
"It is in the interests of all Liberal Party members to make a fresh start  and elect a new leadership on Monday," they said in a statement announced on  Australian Broadcasting Corp. television.
"The party must put past failures behind it and renew and invigourate  itself."
Downer, 42, who leads the ticket, suffers from government jibes that he  speaks with a distinct English accent after living in London for eight years  in his childhood but has worked hard on his media image since taking over the  treasury portfolio.
Costello, 36, is on the party's right wing. His prospects were boosted by  the leading role he played in a campaign which led to the recent resignation  of former Sports Minister Ros Kelly over her allocation of sports grants.
Both men, known as the "young Turks" of the party, announced their  ambitions despite Hewson's veiled threat to any contenders when speaking to  reporters in Canberra.
"I will be returned to the leadership of the Liberal Party with a renewed  mandate -- and then I will make some changes", he said before vowing in his  letter to introduce new rules "to deal with disloyalty and perceptions of  disloyalty."
Former Liberal prime minister Malcolm Fraser said the election would give  the Liberal Party "an opportunity to sort out its problems."
On Tuesday, Fraser said the party was "further away from winning elections  than it was in 1945 when Robert Menzies founded the party."
Hewson, 47, vowed the following day that he was "bloody-well never going  to give up" the leadership.
Elected Liberal Leader in 1990, Hewson was re-elected after leading the  coalition to disastrous defeat in a so-called unlosable election in March 1993  while Australia was still mired in the impact of its worst recession for 60  years.
