The UN Security Council sought ways of brokering a  ceasefire in Yemen's civil war despite the north's objections on Friday, as  southern forces claimed advances on the battlefield.
Britain's ambassador to the United Nations, Sir David Hannay, said the  council was considering a resolution or declaration urging the north and south  to return to the negotiating table.
Saudi Arabia and Oman, both neighbours of Yemen, are at the centre of  intensive talks behind the scenes, said Sir David. They were concerned by the  possible effects of the conflict on the region.
Oman will take over the Council's presidency on Wednesday.
The Arab League chief, Esmat Abdel Meguid, has informed UN Secretary  General Boutros Boutros-Ghali that the organisation would back any  reconciliation bid, although its own efforts have so far failed to have an  impact.
But President Ali Abdallah Saleh's government in Sanaa has rejected a  Saudi proposal for the Security Council to try to end the conflict raging  since May 5 through a ceasefire and arms embargo. The north regards  international involvement as interference in its internal affairs.
In contrast, the proposal was welcomed by the Yemen Democratic Republic  (YDR), which was declared last Saturday in the south.
On the battlefront, northern and southern army units clashed Friday to the  north and east of Aden, as well in the oil region of Hadhramaut, where Saleh's  southern rival, Ali Salem al-Baid, has set up base.
On the northern front, Baid's soldiers have regained the upper hand in the  region of Al-Anad base through air raids and an artillery barrage, a southern  military spokesman said.
"Dozens of dead and wounded northern soldiers were left behind on the  battlefield," he said.
The southern navy and warplanes went into action on the eastern front to  beat back the troops loyal to Saleh, the spokesman added. A northern  helicopter was shot down.
Twelve people were wounded in the southern port city of Aden on Thursday  by shrapnel from a Soviet-made Luna missile, southern television said.
Diplomats at the Cairo-based Arab League, meanwhile, said the Saudi  initiative at the United Nations, if endorsed, would "freeze the status quo"  and keep in place the YDP.
For Riyadh, a new division of Yemen would help contain Saleh and punish  the north for its support of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein during the  1990-1991 Gulf crisis, they said, asking not to be named.
Officials and newspapers in both Iran and Iraq have accused Saudi Arabia of  stirring up the conflict in Yemen.
"Saudi Arabia is afraid of having a strong neighbour at its side," said  Iran's deputy speaker of parliament, Hassan Ruhani, on Friday. "But fratricide  in Yemen is not in the interest of Saudi Arabia or the region."
Diplomats in New York also said the Saudis tilted in favor of the south  and that a resolution proposed by their ambassador to Washington, Prince  Bandar ibn Sultan, was unlikely to be approved without changes.
The Saudi text says no solution should be imposed by force and calls for  Boutros-Ghali to immediately send an envoy to Yemen.
Yemen's representative, Abdallah Saleh al-Ashtal, said efforts to reach  peace must maintain the unity of his country, which was formed in May 1990  between the conservative, tribal North Yemen and former Marxist South.
Abdel Rahman al-Jiffri, vice president of the breakaway state with its  capital in Aden, had said the Saudi proposal was welcome. "But we are strong  enough to defend ourselves and our capital," he said.
An Arab League peace mission to Sanaa at the outset of the conflict, which  followed a nine-month power struggle between Baid and Saleh, also failed to  push the president to negotiate with his deputy.
