Police charged a 49-year-old roadworker Tuesday  with Australia's seven backpacker serial murders.
Ivan Robert Milat also faced one charge of attempted murder and six  firearms and weapons charges.
Prosecutor Ian Lloyd told a packed court in suburban Campbelltown that  several items similar to those belonging to the backbackers had been found at  Milat's home and at the homes of two of his brothers.
Milat, who showed no emotion during the brief hearing, made no plea to the  charges. But his counsel John Marsden said he strongly denied the serious  allegations against him.
Bail was formally refused.
Milat was arrested at his home in suburban Eagle Vale on May 22 by a  police task force investigating the murders of the seven young backpackers,  two Britons, three Germans and two Australians.
Their remains were found buried in shallow graves in the Belanglo State  Forest, south of here, between September 1992 and November 1993.
Milat was originally charged with armed robbery and firearm offenses.
But in court Tuesday police laid the other charges following extensive  week-long searches of several properties in Sydney and the Southern Highlands  area.
Detectives from Task Force Air, set up to investigate the deaths of the  seven tourists, initially charged another two men -- aged 42 and 38 -- with  firearm and drug-related offences. They were bailed to appear in Moss Vale  Court on June 26.
The court heard that English hitchhikers, Joanne Walters and Caroline  Clarke, both aged 22, were murdered on or about April 18, 1992, and their  bodies were found in September of that year.
The remains of Australian backpackers James Gibson and Deborah Everist,  both 19, were found in October 1993. They are alleged to have been killed  about December 30, 1989.
The remains of 20-year-old German Simone Schmidl, who left Sydney in  January to hitchhike along the Hume Highway to Melbourne, were found on  November 1, 1993. Then three days later, the bodies of Gabor Neugebauer and  his German girlfriend, Anja Habschied, were found nearby.
They had disappeared from Sydney's Kings Cross on December 26, 1991, and  had planned to hitchhike from Sydney to Darwin.
