North Korea has not diverted fuel from a  nuclear reactor US Defense Secretary William Perry said here on Friday.
Perry said the Koreans had allowed international inspectors from the  International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to check that no such transfers had  taken place.
"The IAEA has told us that it is confident that there has been no  diversion of the fuel that has just been discharged," said Perry.
However the IAEA and North Korea are still at odds over how to monitor the  removal of the rest of the nearly 8,000 nuclear fuel rods.
Robert Gallucci, an assistant secretary of state involved in formulating  Korea policy, said Friday that if the IAEA's inspection demands were met the  US was ready to begin a new round of top-level talks with the North.
The US broke off talks last July because of North Korea's refusal to allow  international inspections of their nuclear facilities.
Earlier Friday the IAEA had rejected a North Korean proposal to keep fuel  rods in a "safe place under seal" ahead of resumed talks on the issue.
"That won't work. We will no longer be able to verify with certainty if  any of the nuclear material has been diverted," said an IAEA official.
According to the Pentagon the fuel rods in the reactor at Yongbyon nuclear  complex contains enough plutonium for four or five nuclear bombs.
North Korea has denied that it has a nuclear weapons program but has  balked at international inspections.
The Central Intelligence Agency has estimated that North Korea withdrew  enough plutonium in the late 1980s to make at least one nuclear device and  that there is a more than 50 percent chance it actually did so.
North Korea's continued refusal to abide by the IAEA's non-proliferation  rules has led to international threats of UN sanctions, which in turn prompted  war threats from Pyongyang.
North Korean President Kim Il-Sung, in his latest warning, said that North  Korea would not bow to international pressure over its nuclear ambitions,  saying that "pressure can never be a solution to the problem," according to  the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA).
