Syria and Israel are still far apart in moves  towards peace after US Secretary of State Warren Christopher's latest Middle  East mission, Syrian presidential spokesman Gebran Kurieh said Wednesday.
Christopher had briefed Syrian President Hafez al-Assad on his talks with  Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres during  a four-hour meeting.
The US envoy was trying to achieve a breakthrough over the key issue of  the Golan Heights, which Israel captured from Syria in 1967 and is offering to  hand back in a phased withdrawal over several years in return for total peace.
"The results of Mr. Christopher's talks in Israel show that there are  still wide differences because of the Israeli position on the principles of  peace," Kurieh said.
Israel and Syria, who have not held negotiations since the Hebron massacre  on February 25 when a Jewish settler killed 30 Arab worshippers.
Kurieh said the Israeli attitude was not line with the basic principles  and demands of the peace process launched in October 1991 in Madrid.
Syria was still pressing for the peace to be based on UN Security Council  resolutions which "demand a total Israeli withdrawal to the 1967 borders" when  Israel seized the disputed Heights in the Middle East war, he said.
Earlier the New York Times (eds. correct), citing unnamed officials  involved in the mediation between Israel and Syria, said Damascus had shown a  keen interest in an Israeli offer for a three-stage pullout in exchange for  peace.
Israel wanted international monitors and electronic devices installed on  the plateau, and a demilitarised zone extending to neighbouring parts of  Syria, the Times said.
Syria responded with considerable interest prompting Christopher's return  to Damascus after his talks in Israel, the paper added.
Kurieh said Christopher passed on a message from US President Bill Clinton  saying the United States would continue its efforts to "achieve vital progress  in the peace process."
He added Assad had welcomed the US efforts and said Damascus would  continue in the process to "reach a fair and global solution to the  Israeli-Arab conflict conforming to international resolutions and the  principles of exchanging land-for-peace."
The Syrian official press meanwhile rejected any phased handover on  Wednesday.
State-run Damascus Radio reiterated Syria's refusal to give up any inch of  the Golan.
It echoed the official Ath-Thawra newspaper which said in an editorial "We  will not accept any Israeli presence on a single inch of the Golan."
"Syria firmly and categorically rejects partial solutions as well as a  phased withdrawal from the Golan," which Israel has proposed, Ath-Thawra said.
"Political flexibility does not mean accepting Israeli conditions," the  daily added.
Israel has offered a withdrawal over five-to-eight years from the plateau  linked to security arrangements, with the initial return of three out of five  Druze villages on the Golan.
Christopher said in Israel he would try "to find a common basis between  the parties" during his new talks with Syrian officials and that he had  Rabin's "encouragement" to return to Damascus.
The US envoy later arrived in Cairo for talks with President Hosni Mubarak.
