Irregularities reported in one southern Malawi  district have delayed the announcement of the official results of the  country's first democratic polls, won by Bakili Muzuli, the electoral  commission said Friday.
The head of the independent electoral commission, Justice Anastazia Msosa,  told reporters in the capital Lilongwe that irregularities were reported in  Nsanje, home of the vice president of rhw defeated Malawi Congress Party  (MCP), Gwanda Chakuamba.
Msosa said the controversy concerned Nsanje's five constituencies, three  of which have been won by the MCP, the former sole ruling party of ousted  president Kamuzu Banda, and two by the winning United Democratic Front (UDF)  party.
"We have received numerous complaints from that district and certainly  there is a problem," Msosa said.
The controversy centres on Chakuamba himself, who earlier this week was  reported to have lost his seat, but a day later was said to have won by a wide  margin after an "error" in vote counting.
"The outcome has surprised many constituents who say it is not a true  reflection. We have sent our own team to investigate," said Msosa.
Due to transport problems and communications breakdown, Msosa said 80  percent of the election results had been received Friday afternoon.
However, the partial results, excluding Nsanje district, show that the UDF  has won 84 parliamentary seats, the MCP 52 and the Alliance for Democracy  (AFORD), 36 seats.
The UDF has not yet reached the 89 seats required to make 51 percent of  the 177 parliamentary seats for it to have an outright majority.
The UDF is seeking a coalition with AFORD.
The joint coordinator of a team of 300 international observers who  monitored the election, Michael Meadowcroft, on Friday gave the poll a clean  bill of health at a press conference.
The observers were "unanimously satisfied that the election results  reflect and express accurately the wishes of the Malawian people," Meadowcroft  said, commending the country for the "non-obtrusive assistance of security  forces."
"Amongst the new emerging democracies, Malawi may be small in size but (it  is) big in stature," he added. He said the obsevers congratulated "leaders and  officials on their maturity and their example of peaceful transition."
President Muluzi will be sworn in on Saturday at the main stadium here in  Blantyre, the economic capital.
