Australia's most profitable bank, National  Australia Bank Ltd., recorded a 71 percent interim profit rise Thursday,  leading the sector out of a recent quagmire of problem loans.
Analysts said it outperformed expectations by posting net profits for the  six months to March 31 of 868.8 million Australian dollars (625 million US).
Its charge to profits for bad and doubtful debts was slashed to just 98.5  million dollars from 392.1 million dollars the previous corresponding period.
"It is a good result for National Australia Bank based on asset growth,  further improvements in cost efficiency and a sharp drop in charges for bad  debts," said Bain and Co. banking analyst Wilson Lee.
Meanwhile, Westpac Banking Corp. emerged from the red with net profits for  the same period of 320.9 million dollars after losing 204.6 million dollars a  year earlier. It cut charges for bad and doubtful debts to 379.0 million  dollars from 799.7 million dollars previously.
"Westpac seems to be slower in recovery on the bad debt side and that is  what held them back in the half year," Lee said. "It indicates that bad debts  have to come down further, so there is an upside for Westpac."
Bob van Munster, banking analyst for Legal and General fund management,  said the National Australia Bank result was better than expected and its  interim company-tax-paid dividend of 35 cents a share was higher than most  forecasts.
Westpac had performed roughly as predicted, Munster added.
"Certainly the future is a lot brighter than it has been for the last  couple of years because Westpac have done a hell of a lot of work in getting  back on a footing where it can start to perform again."
Munster predicted that ANZ, the third major bank which reports for the  same period on Wednesday, would post net interim profits before abnormals of  310 million dollars to 320 million dollars.
One banking analyst, who asked not to be named, said ANZ and Westpac were  both viewed as recovering banks while National Australia Bank and Commonwealth  Bank of Australia, which has a different reporting season, were "stalwart,  straight balance-sheet" banks.
"It is obviously going to become more competive. Westpac and ANZ have been  constrained by having having to get their houses in order," he said.
"As time goes on that pressure reduces, the balance sheets improve and  instead of having one or two straight major banks, you will then have four."
ANZ McCaughan banking analyst John Hobson said the four major banks had  shed the worst of their problem loans and were set to expand loan portfolios.
"You are probably going to see some loan growth, housing is going to get  tougher and we are probably going to see business loans growing in the next  stage of the cycle," Hobson said.
Lee said: "The whole sector should improve as bad debts become less and  less of a problem."
"We are starting to see more aggressive lending as the banks come out of  their problem loans -- they are sitting on a lot of capital and therefore are  able to lend as the business economy starts very slowly to pick up," he said.
Westpac shares closed at 4.84 dollars each, down 15 cents from Wednesday's  finish, while National Australia Bank edged up two cents to 12.18 dollars.
