Tuesday's French Open notebook:
Austin's law
Tracey Austin will be telling her American compatriot Lindsay Davenport to  go to her High School prom even if that means arriving late for Wimbledon.
Austin's reappearance at the French Open after an 11 year absence  coincided with renewed interest in the question of how young players should be  allowed onto the circuit.
The winner of the 1979 US Open at the age of 16, Austin knows all about  burn out. By the time she reached 20, back injuries had brought her career to  a halt but she insisted: "I'd do the same again. I don't think my problem was  playing too much. I just wish I had had a better back surgeon at the time.
"The two things I'd say to any young player is to stay in school and to  make sure the people around you have your interests at heart."
Austin's own determ   Rain dance
The drizzle that delayed the start of Tuesday's action was good news for  the enterprising umbrella seller who set up stall outside Stade Roland Garros.  Drenched ticket touts, sheltering under the horse chestnuts, looked on  enviously as he did a roaring trade at 60 francs (10 dollars) a time.
With further rain threatened, the touts were offloading their wares at  below face price. It promises to be a miserable fortnight for them. With  10,000 new showcourt places on sale every day and no big home stars to excite  aloof Parisians, ticket supply is likely to run well ahead of demand. (AFP)
Bungee Bruguera
The steely nerve Sergi Bruguera demonstrated in winning last year's final  against Jim Courier has been honed by a new hobby -- bungee jumping. Throwing  himself off bridges with only a piece of elastic between him and a sticky end  helps keep him sane, he says. "I can't just play tennis then go home and sit  around all day." The thrills-seeking Spaniard is also a dab hand at whitewater  rafting. (AFP)
Courier the football fan
Jim Courier's love affair with all things European includes a liking for  soccer. The American, recently awarded a season ticket at Barcelona, has  already developed the instincts of a fan. Asked about their humiliation by  Milan in the European Cup final, he had a ready answer: "They must have been  still celebrating winning the Spanish league." (AFP)
am94
