The death of Jackie Kennedy Onassis closes  another chapter in the life on America's most famous family - the Kennedy clan.
A glance and the trials, triumphs and tragedies of the Kennedys:
JOSEPH P. KENNEDY, 1888-1969
Joseph, the son of a saloon owner, built a financial empire as a banker  and a liquor distributor who prospered at the end of Prohibition. He married  Rose Fitzgerald, the daughter of former Boston Mayor John Honey Fitz''  Fitzgerald.
Rose, now 104, has outlived many of her children and, like her  daughter-in-law Jacqueline, has had to endure the infidelities of her husband.
They had nine children: Joseph Jr., John, Rosemary, Kathleen,
Eunice, Patricia, Robert, Jean and Edward from which Joe created America's  most famous political dynasty.
JOSEPH P. KENNEDY JR., 1915-44, died in plane crash during World War II.
ROSEMARY KENNEDY, 1918-present, has been institutionalized since 1941  because of retardation and the effects of a failed lobotomy.
KATHLEEN KENNEDY, 1920-48, married William John Robert Cavendish, the  Marquess of Hartington. He was killed in World War II. She died in a plane  crash.
JOHN F. KENNEDY, 1917-63, married to JACQUELINE BOUVIER, 1929-94:
John was a bachelor congressman when he married Jacqueline Bouvier in  1953. He went on to become U.S. senator and, in 1960, was elected the 35th  president of the United States.
He became the youngest man ever elected president and his charisma,  coupled with his wife's style and elegance, created what came to be called  Camelot. On Nov. 22, 1963, he was assassinated in Dallas.
In 1968, Jackie married shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis, who was nearly  30 years her senior. He died in 1975.
JFK and Jackie O, as she would later be called, had three children,  Caroline, 36, John, 33, and Patrick, who was born prematurely in 1963 and died  two days later, just three months before his father's assassination.
Caroline, a lawyer, author, philanthropist, and president of the
John F. Kennedy Library Foundation, is married to Edwin Schlossberg, the  head of a design firm. John is a lawyer. He once served as an assistant  district attorney in New York City.
ROBERT F. KENNEDY, 1925-68, married in 1950 to ETHEL SKAKEL,1928-present:
During his brother's presidency, he was attorney general and JFK's most  trusted adviser. He later was elected U.S. senator from New York and ran for  president in 1968. In June of that year, Bobby was assassinated in Los Angeles  after winning the California Democratic presidential primary.
The couple had 11 children: Kathleen, Joseph 2nd, Robert Jr., David, Mary  Courtney, Michael, Mary Kerry, Christopher, Matthew, Douglas and Rory. The  children had many troubles growing up.
Joseph, who was involved in a car accident that left a passenger paralyzed  for life, is now a Massachusetts congressman. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, an  activist lawyer, recently ran unsuccessfully for Congress from Maryland.
Robert was found in possession of marijuana while a juvenile. David died  in 1984 of a drug overdose in a hotel after being ousted from the family  vacation home at Palm Beach. Michael is running the re-election campaign of  his uncle Sen. Edward M. Kennedy.
