Alexander Solzhenitsyn, the ex-Soviet  Union's most celebrated dissident, arrived home Friday after 20 years in exile  to a welcome from girls bearing bread, salt and flowers.
The 77-year Nobel prize-winning author flew first to the eastern Siberian  town of Magadan, in the heartland of the Soviet Gulag prison camp system where  Solzhenitsyn spent eight years of his life.
He was met by the girls bearing traditional gifts and paid tribute to the  victims of the prison camps, after twice stooping to touch his native soil.
At Vladivostock, where he will stay a few days before spending several  weeks
on a train trip across Russia, he and his wife Natalya were welcomed by  black-robed Orthodox priests in homage to the religious conscience that  permeates his work.
Solzhenitsyn confessed to being "a little tired" after close to 48 hours  in the air without sleeping, but said he would address the people of this far  eastern port city later in the evening.
The author of "The Gulag Archipegalo," an epic chronicle of the Soviet  labour camp system, and "A Day In The Life Of Ivan Denisovich" flew in from  Anchorage, Alaska.
The author, who lived the life of a recluse in the US state of Vermont for  18 years, was welcomed home by Nikolai Kartenko, the mayor of Magadan.
Solzhenitsyn made a stopover there of about 15 minutes, and touched down  also at the far eastern city of Khabarovsk.
After alighting from the aircraft at Magadan, Solzhenitsyn twice touched  the ground in what he said was a tribute to the "hundreds of thousands, even  millions" of people who died in the Siberian camps for which the town served  as a processing centre during the Soviet era.
"According to ancient Christian tradition, the land where innocent martyrs  are buried becomes a holy land, and for that it shall be honoured," he said.
"These victims today are easily forgotten, both by those who have not been  affected by the destruction and by those who carried out that destruction. The  roots of our self-destruction come from there."
Solzhenitsyn also spoke briefly with former labour camp prisoners who  still live in Magadan.
He smiled and accepted gifts which included a recording of poetry by a  former dissident poet and a picture.
The former camp inmates said they were sorry Solzhenitsyn had not stayed a  few hours at Magadan so he could have visited the Gulag museum or laid a  wreath at a memorial to the millions of political prisoners jailed in the  Soviet era.
In Vladivostock, Zolzhenitsyn embraced his eldest son Yermoly, who arrived  in the port city Wednesday to prepare for his father's arrival.
Deputy governor Viktor Lebedenets said Solzhenitsyn had refused to stay in  a luxury state residence in a Vladivostok suburb.
Before leaving Anchorage, Solzhenitsyn said that he planned to take "an  active part in the social life of Russia. And as my voice will be heard, I  would like to have some influence on Russia's health."
Speaking through an interpreter, he said he was leaving the United States  "with much emotion. I never dreamed this would be possible. This was my host  country, giving me the most productive period of my life," he said.
Soviet authorities expelled the writer in 1974 because his novels exposed  the darker side of Soviet society by focusing on life as a political prisoner.  He served eight years in prison camps for criticizing Stalin in a letter to a  friend.
Solzhenitsyn went to the United States in 1976 after spending two years in  Europe, eventually settling in rural Vermont.
He was scheduled to deliver his address in Vladivostok from a rostrum  erected in the central square under the Soviet emblem which still adorns the  massive facade of city hall.
