Japan Friday denounced the International Whaling  Commission's decision to establish a whale sanctuary in the Antarctic and  threatened to review its links with the organisation.
"We have options ranging widely from withdrawal from the IWC to  unconditional acceptance of the decision," a senior official of the state  fishery agency told Japanese reporters.
The Japanese government and fishery industry, which insisted that the  world's estimated 750,000 minke whales were exploitable, denounced as  "unscientific" the vote at the IWC meeting in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico.
Japan, for which whalemeat is a traditional delicacy, has proposed to hunt  up to 2,000 minke whales and said it would not threaten the species.
Mutsuki Kato, the minister of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, told a  press conference, "We will have to review in detail the impact on research  whaling and Japan's contributions to the IWC."
He added that Japan would study whether it would appeal the decision  within 90 days as prescribed by IWC rules.
"It can hardly be called a scientific judgement and is extremely  deplorable for Japan," said Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroshi Kumagai.
The top government spokesman added that it was important to solve the  issue by "balancing the exploitation and conservation of whales."
Despite a 1986 moratorium on commercial whaling, Japan, Norway and Iceland  have been hunting whales in the hundreds for "research purposes" to determine  the stock of cetaceans.
But such operations are denounced by ecologist groups, including  Greenpeace, as commercial whaling in disguise.
Japan's sole company for research whaling, Kyodo Senpaku Kaisha Ltd., said  the IWC decision "lacked scientific elements altogether".
"The proposed sanctuary is a sea area where whales feed. What should be  protected is a sea area father north where whales breed," said Hiroshi Suzuki,  the company's president.
He said the sanctuary had been imposed by "radical anti-whaling  organisations and environmental protection organisations."
But Greenpeace's Japanese chapter welcomed the creation of a sanctuary  which could "protect whales from the direct blow of commercial whaling."
"The environment surrounding whales is getting tougher with a decline in  feeds due to the destruction of the earth's ozone layer and the warming of the  atmosphere," it said.
Among whales protected by the sanctuary will be an estimated 1,000  remaining blue whales, which grow to 30 meters (100 feet) and can weigh 150  tonnes, and some 12,000 humpback whales.
Of the 31 countries represented at the IWC conference 23 voted in favor  with Japan casting the sole dissenting vote.
Norway, which had fought to continue whaling, was absent and six nations  abstained: China, Dominica, Grenada, South Korea, St. Vincent and the  Grenadines and the Solomon Islands.
