Zimbabwe's former chief justice and leader of the  main opposition Forum Party of Zimbabwe (FPZ), Enoch Dumbutshena, has been  expelled from his party, newspaper reports said Sunday.
About 300 delegates from the party's five provincial offices passed a vote  of no-confidence in the 75-year-old founding leader at a meeting Saturday  night.
He was replaced by the party's secretary general, Themba Dhlodhlo, as  interim president.
The FPZ accused Dumbutshena of, among other things, dictatorial  tendencies, incompetence, selfishness and lack of communication and respect  for other senior party officials.
The party, seen here by many to be the only viable political challenger to  President Robert Mugabe's government when it was formed last year, has been  dogged by squabbles and splits.
In March, Dumbutshena expelled 22 senior party members, including two who  sit on the party's national executive committee, after they demonstrated  against him and others in the leadership, of "racism, tribalism and  dictatorial tendencies."
One of the executive members sacked at the time, Joshua Cohen, said  Dumbutshena looked "down upon fellow blacks" and was being used by a few  whites.
The party is made up mainly of intellectual leaders, lawyers, businessmen  and white liberals.
On Friday Mugabe accused the FPZ and another opposition party, the  Zimbabwean Unity Movement (ZUM), of being backed by whites bent to regain  colonial power behind black faces.
"Underlying this so-called opposition is a vain attempt to resurrect  internal settler politics where white colonial settlers hide behind black  faces," Mugabe told his party's youth congress.
Opposition politics in Zimbabwe seem doomed just months away from general  elections.
The opposition parties start off promising effective opposition, but are  sooner or later torn by power struggles resulting in factionalism, which  analysts say effectively weaken them.
In 1991, just two years after its formation, Edgar Tekere's ZUM split and  dissenters, accusing him of "dictatorial tendencies and lacking leadership  qualities," formed their own party.
Tekere has since merged with one small opposition party, the United African  National Congress (UANC) of Abel Muzorewa, prime minister of a short-lived  1979 Zimbabwe-Rhodesia transitional government.
However, despite the crisis in the party, Dumbutshena is confident of  victory in the country's next general elections due some time between Januray  and March next year.
Several other fledgling parties have sprouted in Zimbabwe over the last  few years, but the government feels no threat saying there are no opposition  parties to talk about in Zimbabwe and is sure of retaining power for a fourth  consecutive five-year term since it took over from British colonials in the  1980 ballot.
