President Bill Clinton on Friday selected  Stephen Breyer, a Massachusetts federal judge, as his nominee to the US  Supreme Court.
Breyer, 55, seen as a moderate consensus-builder, had been favored by  Clinton last year before he named Ruth Ginsburg to the court.
Making the announcement at the White House Rose Garden, Clinton said the  chief federal appeals court judge in Boston represents "excellence in  knowldge, excellence in judgement."
"Without dispute he is one of the outstanding jurists of our age," Clinton  added.
Clinton's decision ended days of speculation over the nominee to replace  85-year-old Justice Harry Blackmun, who is retiring from the highest US court.
Named for life, the nine Supreme Court justices have a huge role in  determining the course of American society. The appointees must be confirmed  by the Senate.
In recent decades, the court has ended segregation, given blacks increased  political power, legalized abortion and restored the death penalty.
Clinton acknowledged he was pondering two other candidates, Interior  Secretary Bruce Babbitt, and federal appeals court judge Richard Arnold.
Arnold's chances were derailed by health problems and his connections with  Clinton's home state of Arkansas, and Babbitt was seen as a highly political  choice.
Breyer's chances last year were hurt by revelations that he failed to pay  social security taxes for a domestic worker -- a problem similar to the one  that doomed a Clinton nominee for attorney general.
In 1973, Breyer helped prosecute some Watergate cases and later worked as  an aide to Senator Edward Kennedy on the judiciary panel that will consider  his nomination.
Breyer's connections on Capitol Hill and solid judicial background were  seen as factors in his favor, making his confirmation easier.
Senator Orrin Hatch, the leading Republican on the judiciary panel, has  said he would support Breyer, which virtually assures the nomination.
Clinton has said he hoped his nominee can be confirmed before the Congress  adjourns for the summer.
