soaring. Copper jumped a massive 192 dollars during the week,  lifting to its highest point for 13 months at 2,119 dollars per tonne at the  close on Thursday. It continued to rise Friday on encouraging stocks figures.
Dealers said the prospects of increased demand in Europe and the US,  combined with significantly lower stocks, were pushing the metal up  significantly.
"There is a lot of short covering in the market," said analyst William  Adams from Rudolf Wolff, adding that there were supply problems in central  Africa.
Other dealers said the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), formerly  the Soviet Union, was exporting less then predicted.
"Copper's rise is not particularly speculative," said Adams, adding that  many merchants had sold forward and with problems in supply were obliged to  buy on the market to fulfill their contracts.
Adams predicted the metal would continue to rise and could breakthrough  the 2,130 dollars per tonne level in the short term, with the possibility of  rising to 2,175 and 2,200 dollars per tonne soon.
The magazine Metal Bulletin said the substantial arbitrage between Comex  in New York and the London markets was still wooing red metal across the  Atlantic, and was subsequently forcing up premiums in Europe, where --  particularly in Germany and France -- demand is starting to take off again.
On Friday, the red metal broke through its highest point since early July  1993, when records on the LME changed to measuring in dollars per tonne  instead of pounds per tonne.
Elsewhere, the market's perception of underlying tightness in the physical  copper market appeared to be borne out by confirmation by Italian  semi-fabricator Metalrame that its output of copper rod was down by 3,000  tonnes so far this year due to problems sourcing refined copper feed.
Weekly stocks on the LME fell a staggering 31,725 tonnes to 424,700 tonnes.
LEAD: slightly lower. Lead moved little throughout the week, sinking  around five dollars from the previous Friday close at 484.5 dollars per tonne.
The Economist Intelligence Unit said the lead market was generally better  oriented in 1994, compared to previous years with a rise in consumption and a  deficit of production of around 160,000 tonnes.
Weekly stocks on the LME rose 2,725 tonnes to a record 345,725 tonnes.
