Israel state radio stirred up another storm on  Sunday broadcasting a speech in which PLO chairman Yasser Arafat allegedly  says the autonomy agreement is a ruse to capture Jerusalem.
The comment was made during an address Arafat gave in a Johannesburg  mosque on May 10 when he also called for a holy war to liberate Jerusalem,  according to the radio.
"This agreement, I do not consider it more than the agreement which has  been signed between our Prophet Mohammad and Koraish," Arafat can be heard  saying in English.
He was referring to an accord Mohammad struck with the Koraish tribe not  to capture Mecca, said History of Islam Professor Moshe Sharon of Jerusalem's  Hebrew University.
Mohammad reneged on the deal two years later, wiped out the Koraish and  captured the holy city, Sharon said.
"It's an Islamic legal precedent regarding any agreement between the  Islamic world and infidels. An agreement can be made with the enemy and then  broken as soon as possible."
Arafat also said there was no permanent state in the name of Israel,  according to the radio, although it did not play the section of the tape in  which he allegedly said that.
A furore followed in Israel last week after the radio aired the jihad or  holy war appeal, which was not couched in the language of Islamic history.
The radio did not explain why it had not broadcast all the tape together  last week.
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin warned that the call endangered the Middle  East peace process and branded Arafat's explanations as "evasive."
The PLO chief claimed a jihad could be waged for peace and suggested the  emotive word could be used in the context of "I will continue my jihad ... to  bring Christians, Moslems and Jews to pray together in Jerusalem."
He vowed to end terrorism and violence in an exchange of letters with  Rabin ahead of the September 13 signing of the Declaration of Principles for  autonomy.
Arafat's explanations did not convince Jewish right-wing leaders who began  to make preparations for mass protests against the PLO leader's arrival in  Jerusalem, proclaimed by Israel as its eternal, undivided capital.
They have announced that a human chain of thousands and thousands of  people would be thrown around Jerusalem if Arafat tried to enter the city.
The PLO chairman intends to return to the autonomous enclave of Jericho on  the West Bank in the first half of June, according to his aides.
