Top policy-makers from OECD countries, emerging from  two-day talks here, recognized Friday they were puzzled and somewhat worried  by the recent rise in long-term interest rates and volatility in financial  markets.
Participants in a two-day meeting of the OECD's key Economic Policy  Committee (EPC) said surprise and some concern over these developments was  reflected in a discussion of monetary policy, especially in the major three  economies.
However, a European delegate said, this issue in no way overshadowed a  "quite strong" feeling of relief and optimism about the near-term economic  outlook in the 25 member countries of the Organization for Economic  Cooperation and Development (OECD).
Governments in some key industrial countries, especially in Europe, still  face the headache of a continued rise in jobless rates.
But participants said they hoped the budding recovery would be strong  enough by next year for the uptrend to level out and reverse.
They said many Europeans in this context welcomed fresh data showing that  the forces working for recovery in Germany may be stronger than earlier  anticipated.
They said this was good news for Europe as a whole, which has long  suffered from the impact of the German Bundesbank's cautious step-by-step  de-escalation of short-term interest rates.
In Friday's discussion of monetary policy, Germany argued it had done "a  lot" in this respect to facilitate a pickup in growth, delegates said.
But they said there were still arguments in favour of "some" further  easing of short rates to bolster a still fragile recovery in Europe.
In the United States, on the other hand, higher rates were warranted to  dampen growth somewhat and so persuade jittery markets that monetary  authorities will do what is needed to pursue a non-inflationary expansion.
"I think there is agreement that we would all like a moderate recovery  without inflation, that could continue for a long period of time," a delegate  said.
The discussion, participants said, showed that there was no clear answer  to the question of what had caused the uptrend in long rates.
Rising long-term rates normally reflect fears about future inflationary  pressures.
"But rates in Europe are still on their way down, and we do not see much  signs of inflation picking up in North America," one official said.
Higher long rates may also be a mechanical consequence of a fall in bond  prices caused by a wave of selling by American holders seeking to shift into  other forms of long-term investment.
And since bond trading is a global business, the impact was also  inevitably felt in Europe.
"What is worrying is that long-term rates have begun to rise while the  upswing in Europe is still in the vulnerable starting phase," a European  official said.
He said the panel came to the general conclusion that unpredictable  financial market developments made it more than ever necessary to keep up  governments' efforts to reduce their budget deficits over the medium term.
Fiscal consolidation was essential because public debt had reached  "disturbing" proportions in many OECD countries, he said.
