English county Kent may seek legal advice over  their controversial bowl-out defeat by Warwickshire in the quarter final of  the Benson and Hedges Cup.
The Test and County Cricket Board received an official complaint from Kent  on Thursday, in which Warwickshire were accused of negligence in their  handling of the tie, which was abandoned on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Kent secretary Stuart Anderson said: "We have not included mention of any  possible legal proceedings in the letter, but that might well be discussed  here and it's something we might well consider.
"Kent have a very strong one-day side and the potential loss of revenue  from not getting to a semi-final, plus perhaps a final, is considerable."
Anderson added: "We have not demanded that Lord's take any particular  action, but we have registered our discontent."
Kent's appeal centres on Warwickshire's failure to cover the Edgbaston  pitch adequately during last weekend's heavy rainfall. The pitch was left  partly uncovered because of a fungus problem.
The huge 'Brumbrella' at Edgbaston is English cricket's most effective  covering.
Kent's protest to Lord's also accuses Warwickshire of failing to react to  their own mistake and make alternative plans for staging the game.
Tim Lamb, Cricket Secretary of the TCCB, expressed surprise that the  bowl-out had taken place so early in the afternoon.
He said: "In the rules there is provision for the counties concerned to  play a match at any other ground in the country in an effort to decide the tie  with some form of cricket.
"The match could even have been played, for instance, on a school ground  with an artificial pitch. There were other options. Were they explored?"
Warwickshire chief executive Dennis Amiss said Kent were offered the  chance of playing a shortened match at Derby, but declined.
But Anderson retorted: "By then it was too late. The weather was bad in  the Midlands generally and if we'd travelled up to Derby it might have been  raining there by then too."
Warwickshire won the indoor bowl-out 5-4 and have been drawn away to  Surrey in the semi-final. In the other tie, also on June 7, Worcestershire  will play Hampshire at Worcester.
