With one of the healing, inspirational speeches  that have become his trademark, Nelson Mandela on Tuesday opened South  Africa's first all-race parliament, appealing to all to get down to work and  help build a free and prosperous country.
Thousands of cheering people thronged the streets in bright sunlight as  Mandela's motorcade headed for the parliamentary complex, an attractive,  low-slung cluster of buildings nestled at the foot of Cape Town's landmark  Table Mountain.
A squadron of Air Force Impala jets trailing the colors of the new  national flag -- black, green, red, blue, gold and white -- buzzed the city  and a 21-gun salute boomed as Mandela entered the old apartheid parliament as  the country's first black president.
Flanked by his daughter, Zenani, and preceded by the loud chants of a  traditional praise-singer, Mandela walked into the newly refurbished chamber  through the hedge of a military honor guard.
In a wide-ranging speech, Mandela called on all -- from big business to  organized labor, from provincial governments to "friends abroad" -- to  contribute to building a prosperous, free, people-oriented society.
"My government's commitment to create a people-centered society of liberty  binds us to the purpose of the goals of freedom from want, freedom from  hunger, freedom from deprivation, freedom from ignorance, freedom from  suppression and freedom from fear," he said.
He centered most of his inaugural state of the nation address on the  planned benefits of the Reconstruction and Development Program, his blueprint  to solve South Africa's socio-economic problems.
By keeping the funding of the plan to relatively small amounts from the  budget -- 2.5 billion rand (714 million dollars) the first year to gradually  reach 10 billion rand (2.9 billion dollars) the fifth and final year -- he was  careful not to scare off foreign investors, analysts said.
Opening his speech with verse from the late anti-apartheid poet Ingrid  Jonkers, an Afrikaner, Mandela promised his government would quickly look into  an amnesty for political prisoners of all tendencies.
"The nation must come to terms with its past in a spirit of openess and  forgiveness and proceed to build a future on the basis of repairing and  healing," Mandela said.
"We will prepare the legislation which will seek to free the wrongdoers  from fear of retribution and blackmail," he said, "while acknowledging the  injuries of those who have been harmed."
But he promised "the full authority of the position we represent" to deal  with "the problem of politically-motivated violence (which) is still with us."
"We have learnt the lesson that our blemishes speak of what all humanity  should not do," Mandela said. "We understand this fully that our glories point  to the heights of what human genius can achieve."
In broad brush strokes, his speech ranged from the plight of street  children to the situation in Rwanda, from tourism to free health care for  pregnant mothers, from education to big business, from organised labor to the  financing of his socio-economic program and from praise for the security  forces to rejoining the Commonwealth.
