Israeli forces had  completed their withdrawal from all but the centre of Gaza City by Sunday as  part of their redeployment for autonomous Palestinian, PLO officials said.
And that was expected to be evacuated by midnight Tuesday.
The Israelis held just one square kilometre (0.4 sq. mile, eds correct) in  the Rimal quarter which houses the military administration, a jail, the  governor's headquarters, police station, police barracks, a military camp and  a document office.
"There are just these seven places left to evacuate and I think they will  have fully completed their withdrawal by Tuesday at midnight," a senior PLO  official told AFP.
"On Wednesday morning there will not be any Israelis in the town.
"The withdrawal will doubtless take place in the night because they want  to avoid trouble."
All the other positions have been evacuated since Monday night, leaving  the new Palestinian police force in charge of all but the Jewish settlements  on the Strip.
An army spokesman said 1,324 members of the force had entered the Strip  from Egypt and 300 more from Jordan since Tuesday night. Another 426  Palestinian policeman have arrived in Jericho to maintain order, their  commander General Hajj Ismail said.
A total of 7,000 police are due to enter the autonomous enclaves and join  2,000 locally-recruited officers in the new force.
After 27 years of occupation the army is redeploying around the 20 Gaza  settlements to protect the 4,000 settlers during the five-year interim period  of autonomy.
The soldiers who remained on guard in the city appeared tense and nervous.
After being fired on Saturday night at the governor's headquarters,  soldiers riposted wildly shooting in every direction. A Palestinian sitting  playing in a nearby street was shot dead.
And on Sunday, Israeli soldiers ejected two Palestinian policemen from the  area around the old Israeli prison in the city centre where they were visiting  relatives, an AFP photographer reported.
The soldiers checked the policemens' guns were not loaded and told them,  "You have no right to be here, leave immediately."
More Israeli jeeps turned up to check no other police were in the sector.
