Hours after returning from Rwanda, former  Australian prime minister Malcolm Fraser urged Canberra Monday to exercise  caution in deciding whether to send troops to the war-ravaged Central African  state.
Fraser's comments came as the government considered a UN request for an  Australian contingent of up to 400 troops as part of an international force to  protect refugees from the tribal genocide that has already claimed an  estimated 200,000 lives.
Speaking at a news conference here, Fraser said Foreign Minister Gareth  Evans should "pay attention to the political and diplomatic side".
Troops should only be sent if the warring factions agreed to a UN force  and such a force should have as its special envoy someone of "adequate  stature", he said.
"If Australia or other governments are to consider sending in troops, I'm  just pleading with them to pay attention to the political and diplomatic side,  without which no real reconciliation will emerge," said Fraser, who was prime  minister from 1975 to 1983.
"What is the point of a military venture unless you are looking after the  politics? It's the politics that have led to the slaughter."
Meanwhile, senior officials from departments such as defence and foreign  affairs met in Canberra to discuss the UN request.
Officials said Australia shared US concerns over a peace enforcement  mission in Rwanda, where fighting between government and rebel forces shows no  sign of abating, and massacres are still being reported.
A vote by the UN Security Council on the composition of a peace-keeping  force for Rwanda is not expected before early Tuesday Australian time (Monday  afternoon GMT).
Although Evans has said Australia would "very sympathetically" consider a  UN request, officials stressed the situation was being treated cautiously.
Fraser also spoke to Evans after visiting the world's largest refugee camp  on the border of Rwanda and Tanzania, where aid organisations are trying to  cope with more than 300,000 refugees from the horrors of Rwanda.
