Taiwan's entry in the official competition  at the Cannes Film Festival tells a story of cultural confusion in Asia, but  which will be appreciated worldwide, its director told AFP Friday.
Edward Yang, speaking an hour before the premiere of "A Confucian  Confusion" here, said the film was about a specific culture, but has far wider  resonances.
"I don't think its referring just to Taiwan, its referring to Hong Kong,  Korea, Japan and Singapore, all the confucian-influenced societies," he said  in an interview with AFP.
And he added: "If I've done a good job to tell a human story, then people  from other parts of the world will appreciate it ... I wouldn't be surprised  at it because were all human."
"That's why drama is so interesting because its about humanity not just  because were Chinese or French or British. It's a document to look back on in  the future," he said.
The movie, starring new faces Chen Xianqi, Ni Shujun and Wang Weiming,  tells the story of a group of 12 former schoolfriends living hectic  professional and romantic lives in Taipei.
The relentlessly urban setting -- much of the action is set in cars  driving from one apartment to another in downtown Taipei -- contrasts with key  artist characters who turn against the modern technological environment.
Yang says the polarity of the setting and characters relects the cultural  confusion felt by young people not only in Taiwan, but also other Asian  democracies.
"There's a dilemma whether you want to do more about your life or whether  you want to accept the intimidating pressure which puts you back in your  place," he said.
"This is basically what all these societies ... not the ones that are  still developing, but the ones that are already developed, like Taiwan, Hong  Kong, Japan, Korea .. pretty soon China is going to be in that position. This  is what is happening in Asia.
"The West hasn't really realized this culture change. Every one of these  states is trying to implement democracy," he added.
Yang, 47, is in the official competition on the Croisette for the first  time after an appearance in the Un Certain Regard section of the festival in  1987.
But he insists he is not intimidated by seeing his film premiered on the  first full day of the 47th Cannes International Film Festival -- the world's  biggest filmfest.
Above all he has no expectations of winning the top prize, the Golden  Palm, he says, admitting that he has not seen last year's Chinese winner, Chen  Kaige's "Farewell To My Concubine."
Asked how he rates his chances, he replies simply: "I don't. I'd be stupid  if I did. There's nothing I can do now. I've done my best to make the film.  I'm happy about it."
And is he nervous ahead of the public premiere? "No. After five years in  this business you know whats going on. There is nothing you can do about it  ... its not a big deal at all," he says.
