Americans marked the 40th anniversary of the  Supreme Court's ruling to desgregate schools Tuesday, but discrimination and  poverty continue to separate black and white children in the United States.
On May 17, 1954, the high court declared that the country's "separate but  equal" education system was unconstitutional, and ruled that traditionally  white schools must admit blacks.
Though the integration process has been long and often bloody, it is  widely seen as a first step toward ending racism, which was particularly  entrenched in the South where everything from restaurants to drinking  fountains were segregated.
In the 1960s, then-president Lyndon Johnson introduced two landmark bills,  one banning racial discrimination in employment and another guaranteeing  blacks the right to vote, a privilege they had only in principle in the South.
President Bill Clinton commemorated the day with a visit to Martin Luther  King Junior high school in Maryland, where he linked desegregation with the  first all-race elections in South Africa last month.
He called the court's "Brown versus the Board of Education" ruling "one of  the greatest decisions for freedom ever made."
He also attributed his political success to the decision because it  eventually gave political power to blacks, who voted for Clinton in large  numbers in 1992.
"It's virtually inconceivable that I would have become President of the  United States without the Brown decision," he told the students.
Clinton is particularly sensitive about the integration issue as he was  governor of Arkansas, which saw the first big battle over opening up the  schools.
In 1957, Republican President Dwight Eisenhower had to call out the  national guard to escort nine black students past mobs of angry whites to a  Little Rock, Arkansas, high school.
To mark the anniversary Wednesday, Clinton picked a school which was  clearly integrated. Forty-eight percent of the student body was black, 43  white and the rest Hispanic or Asian.
But the trend nationwide is increasingly in the opposite direction, as  more and more whites move out of big cities and take their children -- and  their tax dollars which fund local school systems -- to the suburbs, leaving  crumbling inner-city public schools to greater numbers of black students.
And in the US capital city for example, even most white children living  inside the city attend private schools in the city, or in suburbs in  surrounding Maryland and Virginia.
Studies have also shown that blacks are increasingly inclined to support  voluntary segregation, arguing that all-black schools can provide a better  learning environment.
Clinton expressed concern about the trend Monday at a National Association  for the Advancement of Colored People dinner.
"We see an alarming new study among African Americans that warns of a  pervasive sense of alienation, especially among the young, so that fully half  of them want to opt out of the American system," he said.
"They want to separate themselves... That's why so many large crowds, I  think, are drawn to the message of those who preach separatism."
