Roger Milla, eager to become the oldest World Cup  finalist, denies he was handed a ticket for the United States by Cameroon  president Paul Biya.
"It's a lie," he said here this week as Cameroon's chaotic World Cup  buildup appeared to have finally come to a standstill at the French national  training centre at Clairefontaine.
"Even Henri Michel was furious about those reports," added the man who  took the last World Cup by storm after President Biya insisted he come out of  semi-retirement.
Perhaps "old snake hips" can defy time once more but goalkeeper  Joseph-Antoine Bell, dropped from the last World Cup after he led a revolt  over pay, and Francois Omam-Biyik are unhappy.
"It's put the cat among the pigeons," Bell said.
Omam-Biyik, who scored the winner in the 1990 World Cup opening match  against Argentina, said the younger players resented the attention Milla was  getting.
"He was a great player but we have younger players who are better," he  said referring to newcomers Alphonse Tchami, who plays in Denmark, and  Portuguese league striker David Embe.
Jean-Claude Pagal, who plays for French side Martigues, will give strength  to the midfield, and Le Havre's Andre Kana-Biyik, Omam's half-brother, should  start alongside him after coming back from long-term injury.
But no-one could be sure of exactly who would play and Michel, who coached  France in the 1986 World Cup, had flown back to Cameroon to ask president Biya  to sort out the mess.
Missing kit, sponsorship mix-ups and hangers-on were proving too much for  the former French manager.
"He going out of his mind," said Milla whose four goals helped Cameroon to  the quarter-finals in 1990 and guaranteed him worldwide fame.
His inclusion as a 72nd minute substitute in Cameroon's 3-0 win over  Greece earlier this month suggests he will appear again.
In Italy Milla became the oldest player ever to score at a World Cup,  being one year older than Sweden's Gunnar Gren who was 37 when he scored  against West Germany in the 1958 semi-finals.
