(Picture)
Japan proposes compromise to save threatened whales
by Eduardo Garcia Aguilar
PUERTO VALLARTA, Mexico, May 24 (AFP) - Japan has countered a proposal to  create a vast no-hunting zone to protect whales by proposing a smaller safe  zone around the South Pole.
At a four-day meeting of the International Whaling Commission, formed in  1946 to regulate whale kills, Japan Monday offered a compromise to a French  plan to ban whale hunting south of the 40th parallel to save 11 whale species,  including the blue whale and the humpbacked.
The 40th parallel circles the South Pole passing near Buenos Aires and  south of Australia and the southern tip of Africa.
Japan, which considers whale meat a delicacy, had allied with Caribbean  nations that receive foreign aide from Tokyo to defeat the proposal when it  was considered last year at the commission's meeting in Kyoto.
This year, Japan proposed a smaller sanctuary and limited hunting of the  minke whale, with a population of 750,000 one of the few species not  considered endangered.
The president of the whaling commission, Luis Fleischer of Mexico, urged  participants when the meeting opened Monday to reach "fair and equitable"  agreements to regulate whaling, but acknowledged that hunting "continues to be  relevant to some indigenous communities and to the culture of some countries."
Seventy-five percent of the 40 countries participating at the meeting must  approve a proposal for it to pass.
Ten countries are expected to back the sanctuary: Argentina, Australia,  Britain, Denmark, France, Ireland, Mexico, Monaco, the United States and New  Zealand. Dominica may also back the plan.
Japan can count on support from Grenada, St. Vincent and St. Lucia. Norway  and South Korea are expected to abstain.
The rich southern waters have yielded 1.5 million of the huge mammals in  the past century, hunted for their meat, blubber and whalebone.
Among others, the sanctuary is designed to protect the 1,000 remaining  blue whales, which grow to 30 meters (100 feet) and can weigh 150 tonnes.  There are believed to be about 12,000 humpbacked whales.
