Israel stepped up security on Sunday fearing  Hezbollah attacks as the interrogation of a kidnapped Shiite Moslem leader  gave the first answers on a missing airman, the army and state radio reported.
The questioning of Mustafa Dirani, head of the pro-Iranian "Resistance of  the Faithful," who was snatched in a daring airborne raid in Lebanon on  Saturday, was taking place "somewhere in Israel," military officials said.
Military intelligence chief General Uri Saguy told reporters that  46-year-old Dirani had "already provided some answers to questions we asked  for a long time."
Dirani had confirmed that as head of security for pro-Syrian militia Amal  he had detained Israeli navigator Ron Arad for two years after he was captured  on October 16, 1986, Saguy said.
General Shlomo Gazit, a former military intelligence boss, told state  radio: "Dirani no doubt knows where Ron Arad was kept up to Saturday.
"He can provide details about those who held him, which will help us to  take action. He will also provide information about Hezbollah, which is  important on an operation level."
Fear of reprisals from pro-Iranian Lebanese groups led by Hezbollah, with  which Dirani has close links, prompted orders to Israeli embassies and foreign  representations to tighten security, Israeli radio announced.
And military officials said the army was "ready" for attacks after  Hezbollah threatened to step up the fight against Israel's occupation of a  "security zone" in southern Lebanon.
"Experience shows that after Israeli operations in Lebanon there is often  a riposte," one official said.
Dirani was taken from his home at Qsarnabaa village in the  Syrian-controlled Bekaa valley of eastern Lebanon.
Labour Party MP Efraim Sneh who is close to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin  predicted that the abduction would not damage the Middle East peace process.  "There will be no impact on the peace negotiations with Damascus," he said.
"It shows that the shelter Syria offers to terrorists is not a sanctuary."
The US Congress recently maintained Syria on a list of countries which  sponsor terrorism.
Rabin announced Saturday that Israel's intention was "solely to obtain  information on the fate of the aviator" from Dirani
As leader of the Oppressed on Earth group, he organized the abduction of  nine Lebanese Jews in November 1985. Eight of them were murdered.
Amal leader and Lebanese parliamentary speaker Nabih Berri has alleged that  Dirani sold Arad to the Iranians for 500,000 dollars.
The airman was shot down during a bombing raid on a Palestinian refugee  camp east of the Lebanese port city of Sidon. He is the only one of six  missing Israelis believed still to be alive, probably in Iranian hands.
His wife Tami has led a tireless campaign to try to win her husband's  release and has met UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros Ghali.
Despite full government support for her efforts, right-wing leaders have  accused Rabin of failing to do enough to secure his freedom.
As defence minister, Rabin ordered in 1989 the kidnapping of another  Hezbollah leader, Sheikh Abdel Karim Obeid, in an attempt to organize a swap  for Arad. But it never worked and Obeid remains in an Israeli jail.
Dirani's brother Ghassan is also in prison in Israel after being handed  over by Lebanese Christian forces, according to reports in Sunday's Hebrew  press.
The Yediot Aharonot commented that Israeli commandos had snatched the  relatives of several Hezbollah leaders in Lebanon but still failed to open any  channels for negotiations to release Arad.
Meanwhile, in Tehran, Iranian state radio termed the kidnapping a  "terrorist act" which betrayed Israel's weakness. It called for international  condemnation.
Tehran has strongly denied Israeli charges that Arad was being held by  Iranian Revolutionary Guards. The radio did not mention Arad.
