Israel and Syria could sign a peace agreement  this year with the help of increased US diplomatic efforts, Israeli Deputy  Foreign Minister Yossi Beilin said Thursday.
"If US Secretary of State Warren Christopher continues his tours of the  Middle East and even steps up the pace, then it is possible to reach a peace  agreement with Syria in 1994," Beilin told Arab-language Israeli television.
He said "despite divergences the basis of an accord already exists."
But he added it would need more shuttle missions by Christopher between  Damascus and Jerusalem to reach "concrete results."
Christopher ended a second shuttle mission between Jerusalem and Damascus  in three weeks Wednesday, admitting there was still a long way to go in the  search to bring peace between Israel and Syria.
Syria too said there were important differences between the two sides.
The main stumbling block to resuming stalled Israel-Syria peace talks has  been the issue of the Golan Heights, seized in 1967 and annexed in 1981.
Israel has proposed a phased withdrawal from the strategic heights, in  messages relayed to Syrian President Hafez al-Assad by Christopher.
But Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shareh dismissed Israeli peace  proposals Thursday saying they showed Israel did not want to withdraw from all  the Arab lands it occupied during the 1967 Middle East war.
The official agency SANA said Shareh was commenting during a meeting with   his Swiss counterpart Jacob Kellenberger who arrived in Damascus Wednesday.
Shareh said the proposals "would not help to achieve progress" in the  peace process as they "were based on premeditated Israeli intentions not to  withdraw from all the Arab lands occupied in 1967," SANA added.
Syria is demanding a commitment to total withdrawal before resuming talks,  while Israel is offering a phased withdrawal in return for a peace pledge.
Earlier Thursday Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Syria was  "blowing cool" about maneuvres to bring it back to the negotiating table.
"We know the Syrians' methods," Peres told state radio. "Until an  agreement is concluded they blow cool winds in every direction."
