A White House aide fired for taking a  presidential helicopter to a golf course maintained Tuesday he did nothing  wrong, but said he would reimburse the government 13,129 dollars.
"I still contend my actions were in performance with my job," said David  Watkins, who was fired last week after news photos showed him and other White  House officials at a Maryland golf outing with a presidential helicopters.
The White House said that Watkins initially refused when Chief of Staff  Mack McLarty urged him last week to reimburse the government for the full cost  of the flights, even though a second administration staffer was on board.
"As the person who authorized the flight in that instance it was thought  that David Watkins would be the best person to take responsibility," said  White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers.
But Watkins, an Arkansas friend of the president, telephoned McLarty on  Monday and said he would pay. "He talked to the president on Thursday. I don't  know if he's talked to him since," added Myers.
Other aides on the trip had volunteered to pay a portion of the costs out  of their own pockets.
"I think Mr. Watkins has already turned in his pass and his pager," said  Myers, who described the flight as an isolated incident.
"I'm not admitting that I did anything wrong," said Watkins, a millionaire  who said he could easily pay for the helicopter golf outing. "It could be a  financial burden on some of those who were going to participate."
Watkins' duties included supervision of the Camp David presidential  retreat. He flew to Camp David the same day to inspect construction projects.
The White House responded to the uproar over the use of the helicopter by  tightening up regulations over who is allowed to use them and by issuing a  list of all non-presidential helicopter flights that White House staffers were  on.
The list revealed three other flights Watkins and his golf partner had  taken but Myers said there had been no other instances of misuse.
Under the new rules, all cabinet members, senior White House staff and on  down are required to get permission from McLarty or his deputy Phil Lader to  use a presidential helicopter.
McLarty and Lader must seek permission from the White House counsel or  deputy White House counsel.
