The mainly Tutsi Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF)  Sunday seized Kigali airport and the nearby Camp Kanombe barracks from  government troops, UN officials said, in a decisive move for control of the  capital.
Hundreds of people fled the camp after the rebels took the airport  following days of intense shelling. The Hutu government barracks accommodated  up to 4,000 troops until recently and were the biggest in the Rwandan capital,  according to a UN estimate.
UN spokesman Abdul Kabia, contacted by telephone in Rwanda, said the  airport, where 200 Ghanaian UN troops are stationed, fell to the RPF at about  6:00 a.m. (0400 GMT) with no casualties reported.
"The RPF soldiers are everywhere, in the buildings, on the runway," one  military source said.
Kabia said the mainly-Hutu Rwandan army appeared to have abandoned its  positions around the airport, where it had stationed anti-aircraft guns.
He said however that the army chief of staff denied that his men had been  chased out of the airport and said that they had left their positions in  response to a UN demand that the airport be made neutral territory.
Kabia said more than 600 people in civilian clothing had left Kanombe and  asked the Ghanaian contingent for protection.
He said some of them carried guns, grenades and machettes and were  disarmed.
Sunday afternoon observers of the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda (UNAMIR)  entered the camp but saw only "very few signs of close combat."
"We did not see any dead bodies," Kabia added.
For the fourth consecutive day, UN planes bringing badly needed  humanitarian aid were prevented from landing at the airport. The UN wants to  see security tightened at the site before bringing in its own reinforcements.
The UN Security Council voted last Tuesday to boost the UN presence in  Rwanda to a maximum of 5,500 men, from the current 400, and called for the  immediate dispatch of around 500 Ghanian UN troops.
Before Camp Kanombe was taken military experts said that the government  troops would probably try to re-take the airport but its capture called that  analysis into question.
"The takeover of the airport and Camp Kanombe is very important, very  significant for what will follow," said RPF spokesman James Rwego.
It will be "very difficult" for government troops to retake the airport,  he added.
Government forces still hold the presidential guard barracks, a police  barracks and "Camp Kigali," near the defense ministry in the capital's centre.
Rwego said that following the RPF's capture of the airport, shipments of  humanitarian aid would be easier and the RPF would not obstruct them.
Kabia said meanwhile that sporadic heavy weapons fire was continuing  around the police barracks at Kacyiru in the north of the town.
The UNAMIR headquarters at the Hotel Amahoro, in the eastern part of the  capital, was shelled Saturday but there were no casualties, Kabia said.
Before the bloody conflict erupted in early April the RPF had a 600-strong  battalion in Kigali to protect its officials negotiating a larger role in a  transitional government provided for in the Arusha peace accords signed in the  Tanzanian city last August.
Since then, the RPF has swept down from the north and now holds about  two-thirds of the country and is tightening its noose around the capital, with  government troops holded up in the western quarters, UN sources said.
At least two million people have been made homeless by the fighting which  followed the April 6 death of Hutu president Juvenal Habyarimana in a  suspected rocket attack on his plane.
Estimates of those butchered range between 200,000 and 500,000 while     hundreds of thousands of people have fled Rwanda to neighbouring countries.
