The Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), an illegal  loyalist paramilitary grouping, Sunday claimed responsibility for an attack on  an IRA fundraiser in Dublin which killed one man and injured another.
The attack occurred Saturday night when at least three men tried to push  past a doorman at a Dublin bar where Irish Republican Army sympathisers were  holding a collection for IRA prisoners held in Northern Ireland.
The attackers also left a small bomb at the pub, whose detonater exploded.  The main charge failed to go off, however, and was defused by police.
In a communique released in Belfast, the Protestant paramilitary group  said IRA leaders were in the pub when it was attacked.
In an overtly political message, the group said: "The UVF would warn the  IRA and the Dublin government that the people of Ulster will not be coerced or  persuaded ... and will remain master of its own destiny."
Recent peace moves including an Anglo-Irish declaration and the offer by  Britain of a referendum on Northern Ireland's future have been seen by  Protestant leaders as pressuring them to accept a greater role for Dublin in  their affairs.
In their statement, the UVF said that the "logistical setback of  Teesport," the port in northern England where British police last November  seized more than 300 assault rifles, two tonnes of explosives, detonators,  grenades and other ammunitions destined for the Protestant militia, had been  "overcome."
Southern Ireland has so far seen little of the violence which has plagued  the North since violence between Irish nationalist and pro-British groups  broke out at the end of the 1960s.
The last major attack in the Irish Republic came in May 1974 when 33 were  killed and 300 injured by bombs in Dublin and Monaghan -- attacks recently  claimed by the UVF.
But loyalist groups have recently signalled they will target the south if  Britain were to cede more influence to Dublin.
On Friday, James Molyneaux, the leader of the pro-British moderate Ulster  Unionist Party, appealed to loyalist terrorists to stop committing acts of  violence and admitted his party had held talks with "elements close to"  protestant paramilitary organisations to press the call.
Saturday's Guardian newspaper reported the paramilitaries were "seriously  considering" the Unionist leader's appeal.
The IRA also said Saturday in a statement it welcomed evidence that the  loyalist groups were thinking of ending their campaign against republican  targets.
In its statement, the republican movement said: "should those currently  waging and directing the pro-British terror campaign desist from their  activity, ... the IRA would monitor the situation and review our position on  those responsible for this murder campaign."
The statement came just hours after the IRA killed a British soldier in  Armagh, on the border with the republic, for "monitoring the movements" of one  of its men.
