Jim Courier will have no qualms about wrecking the  grand slam dream of his old friend Pete Sampras.
The American pair, off court pals and on court rivals for nearly a decade,  meet here on Tuesday in a quarter-final clash that is the first major obstacle  in the way of Sampras becoming the first player since Rod Laver to hold all  four major titles.
"I won't be thinking about that," Courier said. "I am playing for me. Pete  is playing for him."
Sampras promised: "It is going to be a war."
Although Sampras leads Courier 10-2 in their previous meetings, he freely  admits his opponent, who has lost one match -- last year's final -- in three  years at Roland Garros, will have the edge in their first ever meeting on clay.
"Jim is one of the best, maybe the best, claycourter in the world,"  Sampras said. "You have to consider him the slight favourite."
Sampras has yet to get past the quarters here and his fourth round display  against Swedish qualifier Mikael Tillstrom was less than convincing.
"I'm going to have to play a couple of steps higher than I have been  playing," he said. "Jim likes that centre court and it will be a big challenge  for me in a five set match."
Sampras and Courier fought a relentless battle for the world number one  spot in the first half of last year.
But after Courier was beaten in the final here by Sergi Bruguera his form  progressively deserted him while Sampras moved on to a higher plane to sweep  to victory at Wimbledon and the US and Australian Opens.
Even if he can get past Courier, Sampras knows he will still have a  mountain to climb to win the tournament.
A top heavy top half of the draw means Sampras or Courier will have to  face the winner of the Bruguera-Andrei Medvedev match.
Bruguera beat Sampras in the quarter finals last year. He also overcame  Medvedev in the semi-finals but that was his only victory in five clashes --  all on clay -- with the Ukrainian.
When they last met, in the final at Monte Carlo last month, Medvedev swept  Bruguera off court as convincingly as Bruguera had won their meeting here last  year.
"I'll have to try and do something different against him but if he played  the way he did in Monte Carlo he is going to beat me," Bruguera admitted.
am94
