British lorry drivers donned shirt and  tie Thursday as they became the first commercial passengers to pass through  the Channel tunnel, giving a measured welcome to the multi-billion dollar  underground link between England and France.
In the club-car which carried the drivers towards France at 130 kilometres  (80 miles) an hour, Mal Lindsey, a British driver working for the Bird's  company, said laconically:
"The freight shuttle is better and quicker than the ferry. On the ferry,  after breakfast, it's boring, you have nothing to do. Here, in the club-car,  just the time to eat, and you have already arrived."
He said that in future his company should use both ferry and tunnel  equally.
He was heading for Germany with a load of gear boxes and poked fun at the  other British drivers for wearing ties. "They're not real lorry drivers," he  said.
The British drivers dressed up for the the commercial opening of the  tunnel by putting aside their traditional tee-shirts, but on the French side  French and Belgian drivers assembled here in more relaxed attire.
The lorries on the British side were loaded tightly one behind the other  at the terminal at Cheriton near the Channel port of Folkestone and at  Coquelles.
One driver, Roland Cordier, working for the Norbert Dentressangle company  which is the biggest French trans-Channel haulier, did not seem unduly  impressed by his trip.
"You have the impression of being in the metro (Paris underground  railway). And what's more, it's just as hot."
"On the whole it's positive, it's fast, particularly as you're able to  forget about the lorry, to relax. But all the same it means that we get less  rest than when we took the ferry."
In the mini bus taking drivers from the club-car to the lorries, Cordier  expressed some reservations about the freight shuttle service.
"At the departure point in the terminal the formalities before leaving,  reception, the scanner, emigration, customs, were not so quick as we were led  to believe," he said.
A driver for the Calberson haulage company Jean-Pierre Fouche was  satisfied: "We are finished with the storms which keep the ferries in port,  preventing any departures, and the holiday period which reduces the room  available for lorries on the ferries," he said.
Fouche, who drives a service between the east end of London and Paris,  expressed concern that the space available for the lorries inside the freight  wagons was narrow and low.
"When the lorries are more than 4.2 metres (13 and a half feet) high it's  very tight," he said.
The tunnel shuttle service was opened by invitation to clients who had  opened accounts with Eurotunnel, and from 5:00 p.m. (1500 GMT) on a  fare-paying basis. The service is targeted at about 1,200 European haulage  companies, of which 50 percent are British and 20 percent French.
Passenger and freight trains were due to begin using the tunnel within the  next few weeks but trains are not expected to run at the full normal rate  until the beginning of the autumn.
The tunnel was opened officially on May 6 by Queen Elizabeth II of Britain  and President Francois Mitterrand of France.
