Top American fashion designer Ralph Lauren was fined  two million francs (360,000 dollars) by a French commercial court on Wednesday  for copying a tuxedo dress by France's legendary couturier Yves Saint-Laurent.
But while the US designer was ordered to pay two million francs in damages  and interest for "counterfeiting and disloyal competition," out of the the  five million francs being sought, he won an action for defamation against  Pierre Berge, head of the YSL couture business.
He was awarded 500,000 francs (87,720 dollars) against Berge for remarks  which appeared in the US fashion bible Women's Wear Daily, against the one  million francs he had demanded.
The row between the two international fashion leaders has highlighted one  of the most intractable problems besetting the industry, that of plagiarism.
It goes back to December 1992, when the photograph of a tuxedo dress  signed Ralph Lauren appeared in a women's magazine. The house of YSL  immediately ordered an investigation and discovered that 132 copies of the  dress had been sold.
As far as the couture house was concerned, Yves Saint-Laurent invented the  tuxedo dress back in 1970. The litigation was over a revival of the dress for  his haute couture autumn-winter collection in 1992-1993 and a reworking for  his ready-to-wear line Rive Gauche in the summer of that year.
On April 29 the court was helped to its decision with a private catwalk  show by two models wearing the disputed dresses, while Ralph Lauren  counter-attacked with the defamation suit against Berge.
Yves Saint-Laurent's lawyer Francine Summa explained that the action had  been brought on a matter of principle. "Pierre Berge did not want to  compromise, he wanted to make an example."
She said the court's ruling was innovative, in that the law on protecting  the copywright of fashion designs has existed since 1952 but hardly ever been  enforced.
There was no comment from the Ralph Lauren side.
As well as the two million which the company has been ordered to pay Yves  Saint-Laurent couture, it will also have to pay out 200,000 francs (35,090  dollars) to Rive Gauche, the ready-to-wear arm of the fashion empire.
Counterfeiting is widespread in the fashion industry it is all the more  difficult to combat because the different legislation against it has not been  harmonised.
The house of Christian Lacroix has recently brought three actions against  manufacturers of jewellery, handbags, and clothes, for copying and  plagiarising the house style.
Jean-Jacques Picart, a close associate of the couturier, said goods had  been seized from shop premises and the cases would be coming to court in the  near future.
The lifting of Christian Lacroix designs has been widespread, an action  has even been taken against the leading German fashion house Escada. "We see  copying as a tribute, but these days it is causing us increasing commercial  nuisance," Picart told AFP.
It was also getting harder to make a distinction between counterfeiting  pure and simple (reproducing an identical design) and copying "in the style  of", a more pernicious form of counterfeiting, he said.
At Chanel, the head of the department in charge of the house's image,  Pierre Bilbon, said the most vulnerable parts of the business to copying were  leather goods and perfumes. The house spends around 30 million francs (5.3  million dollars) a year fighting the counterfeiters.
