Iraqi President Saddam Hussein sacked prime  minister Ahmad al-Khodair's government Sunday and took over the premiership  himself to tackle the country's economic crisis, the Iraqi news agency INA  said.
But the thrust of the country's domestic and foreign policies is unlikely  to change.
In a statement put out by INA, the country's ruling Revolutionary Command  Council said it had decided "for economic reasons, to relieve the government  of its duties."
"Taking into account the circumstances created by the unjust international  embargo and the need to accord exceptional importance to economic affairs and  the everyday life of the population, the RCC has decided to confer the duties  of prime minister straight to President Saddam Hussein."
Apart from the change at the helm, the new cabinet also features three  deputy prime ministers instead of just one in the outgoing government.
All but one of the outgoing ministers have been kept on in their jobs,  including Khodair in the finance portfolio.
The only change is in agriculture, which has gone to newcomer Karim Hassan  Rida. He replaces Beshir Aluan Humadi, who was sacked without explanation last  Wednesday.
The cabinet consists of 25 ministers including the three deputy premiers,  two more than Khodair's previous cabinet, which took office on November 5 last  year.
Tareq Aziz, in charge of Iraq's relations with the United Nations, stays  on as deputy premier, and is joined by Taha Yassin Ramadan and Mohammad Hamza  al-Zubaidi.
Aziz has been attempting to persuade the UN to drop the embargo it imposed  after Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990.
Ramadan, who was vice-president, is a Kurd and is considered a renegade by  Kurdish nationalists who control the Kurdistan region of northern Iraq. The  region has enjoyed de facto autonomy since rebelling against Baghdad at the  end of the Gulf war in 1991.
Zubaidi was appointed prime minister in September 1991, after his  predecessor Saadun Hammadi was sacked, and remained in the post until last  September.
Saddam Hussein took over as premier during the Gulf war in January and  February 1991.
Khodair's finance portfolio remains key to any recovery, given the  inexorable depreciation of the dinar on foreign exchanges.
Safa'a Hedi Jawad is also in the hot seat as oil minister. Oil exports,  Iraq's primary source of revenue, have been blocked by the international  embargo.
Domestic and overseas policies seem unlikely to change with the retention  of Mohammad Said al-Sahaf at foreign affairs, and Saddam Hussein's relatives  General Ali Hassan al-Majid at defence and Watban Ibrahim al-Hassan at the  interior ministry.
It is Saddam Hussein's fourth government since the end of the Gulf war.
Sunday's CCR meeting, and a meeting of the ruling Baas party, were both  chaired by Saddam Hussein, the statement said.
The meetings concluded that there had been growing moves within the United  Nationas to drop sanctions against Iraq, despite US opposition.
The UN Security Council voted on May 17 to maintain the embargo, but at  the previous vote on March 18, China, France and Russia noted that Iraq had  made progress on disarmament, as required by the UN before sanctions can be  lifted.
Rolf Ekeus, head of the UN Special Commission for the Disarmament of Iraq  (UNSCOM), said Sunday there had been progress in talks with Iraqi officials in  the Jordanian capital Amman.
