Asia Pacific entrepreneurs eager to  boost business in the region will set up a forum that will allow them to  contribute to policy making within the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  (APEC), a businessman said Thursday.
Vice-chairman of the Indonesian chamber of commerce and industry Husein  Aminuddin, speaking on the second day of an APEC senior officials' meeting,  said the region's business community plans to launch an Asia-Pacific Business  Network (APB-Net) in Jakarta in August.
"The main objective of the APB-Net is the creation and development of  business activity," he told the meeting, adding that the network had been  discussed by an APEC working group on trade promotion here in March.
"The basic idea of the APB-Net is to provide the APEC business community  with an appropriate forum in which individual businesses, particularly small  and medium enterprises, can forge closer ties and develop business ventures,"  Aminuddin said.
The APEC working group which aims for a wider private sector participation  in the region's trade promotion, had agreed on the need for some sort of forum  for business people to interact, a conference source said.
Aminuddin said the objective would be achieved through periodic meetings  between individual companies in the region to identify information exchange  opportunities in the framework of promoting trade and investment within APEC.
The senior officials' meeting, the second this year, opened Tuesday with  its chairman pledging to narrow the development gap among its member economies  through encouraging the participation of its private sectors and the promotion  of the region's small and medium scale firms.
The three-day meeting was the second of a series of four to prepare for  APEC's ministerial summit in Indonesia in mid-November.
A conference official said the forum was an expression of how the private  sector manifested its interest in regional organizations, and added that the  APB-Net "also hopes to be able to play some sort of a complementing role in  November."
The official was referring to the APEC's leaders informal summit on the  economy which is tentatively slated for November 15 in Bogor, south of  Jakarta, a few days after the group's ministerial summit.
"It still has to be sorted out ... how the APB-Net will relate to the APEC  system as a whole," the official said, adding that it would most likely be  discussed in the August meeting in Jakarta.
He added that the network was also hoped to "formulate observations or  conclusions which would contribute to the improvement of business climate, a  freer trade."
Another conference official said that "basically they (senior officials)  were amenable to the idea," but added that at least one East Asian delegation  was more cautious and rather preffered to strengthen existing groups within  APEC.
APEC has already set up the Private Business Forum (PBF) but Aminuddin  said that it was more a policy arm of the organization and not one that really  involved "the actual practitioner" in business.
Indonesia and Australia will jointly organize the launching of the APB-Net  in Jakarta on August 24-25, Aminuddin said.
Taking part in the senior officials' meeting were delegates from APEC's  member economies -- Australia, Brunei, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia,  Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines,  Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and the United States.
