Luis Fernandez, who will train French champions  Paris St. Germain next season, was given a rousing send-off by the home fans  at Cannes on Saturday when his team clinched the last available UEFA Cup place  for next season.
On the final day of the Championship, Cannes held St. Etienne to a  goalless draw while the other contenders for the final European berth,  Montpellier, were beaten 3-2 at Lyon.
Fernandez was mobbed by his players and fans after the match and the  chgampagne was brought out in the dressing-room.
Despite having to share the points with the visitors, Cannes still managed  to pip recent French Cup finalists Montpellier for the last European berth.  Montpellier crashed 3-2 at Lyon.
Lyon were under immediate pressure and the vitiors went ahead through  Christophe Sanchez after just seven minutes when the striker soared to head  home from a Franck Rizzetto corner.
But jubilation on the Montpellier bench was short-lived.
Four minutes later Florian Maurice dived spectacularly to head down a  cross from Franck Gava.
Worse was to follow for the visitors. After half-an-hour James Debbah  jinxed round visiting goalkeeper Claude Barrabe and sloted into an open net.
Sanchez raised Montpellier's hopes on the hour when he scored his second  goal of the match. It was a replica of the first and the forward headed in  from another Rizzetto corner.
Eight minutes later, however, Maurice put the issue beyond doubt when he  too scored his second goal of the match, cleverly controlling a cross from  Sylvbain Deplace and picking his spot for a tremendous drive.
Paris St. Germain, already sure of the title, finished the season with a  flurry. They scored a 4-1 victory over Bordeaux at Parc des Princes to finish  on 59 points from their 38 matches. Their goals came from Paul Le Guen (19,  23), David Ginola (31) and veteran Liberian frontrunner George Weah (71)
Bordeaux pulled one back through Didier Senac on the hour.
Unfortunately the post-match celebrations were marred when the notorious  Paris St. Germain supporters tried to invade the pitch and clashed when they  were prevented from doing so by riot police. There were no reports of any  injuries
Marseille played their last first division football before their enforced  relegation to the second division -- part of their punishment for the bribery  charges concerning their league match against Valenciennes last season -- and  came away from Lens 3-2 winners. It left them in second place eight points  behind the champions.
Lens' star forward Roger Boli finished the season as the league's top  joint-scorer with 20 goals alongside Youri Djorkaeff of Monaco and Nicolas  Ouedec of Nantes after he opened the scoring against Marseille after 15  minutes.
