Pakistan Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has bowed  to Moslem militants and agreed to introduce Islamic Sharia law in part of  northern Pakistan following clashes with security forces Monday in which 10  people were killed.
The government issued a decree late Monday announcing the immediate  introduction of the Sharia to replace the existing civil code in Malakand  region of the North West Frontier Province where the disturbances occurred.
Bhutto, 40, who favours a modern and liberal interpretation of Islam, gave  in to the small clerical party Tehrik-e-Nifaz Sharia (movement for the  introduction of Sharia) which had mobilised tens of thousands of people behind  its militant religious stand.
Movement leader Soofi Mohammad called for a Jihad (holy war) against  security forces and the Jamaat-i-Islami, Pakistan's main fundamentalist  movement, is urging a general strike Friday in the Province.
Malakand, is a rural and mountainous region, populated by Pashtuns, a  heavily armed ethnic group, fiercely proud of its traditions and autonomy, and  deeply religious, a factor which the clerical movement has exploited.
Monday's clashes, which also left about 30 people injured, erupted in the  town of Buner following several days of demonstrations in which militant  Moslems blockaded roads.
Security forces opened fire after repeated baton charges and teargas  shelling failed to disperse crowds chanting slogans in favour of Sharia law,  witnesses said.
The provincial government said security forces had been fired on first,  prompting retaliation.
Governor Khurshid Ali Khan later announced that the government would  enforce Islamic laws in Malakand.
The region was formerly part of the princely state of Swat which was  merged with the North West Frontier Province in the 1960s and its traditional  administrative system in which Islamic Qazi courts used to decide disputes was  abolished.
Local people resented the changes and claimed they were responsible for an  alarming increase in crime and corruption.
Analysts said the decision to enforce Sharia law was likely to encourage  Islamic fundamentalist pressure throughout the region.
"You give them an inch and they will try to take a mile," said a  businessman from the populous Punjab province. Speaking on condition of  anonymity, he said there was no Moslem sectarian consensus on Sharia, with  various religious schools interpreting it differently.
Friction between militant groups from Pakistan's minority Shiite community  and Sunnis, who make up the overwhelming majority, have sparked frequent  incidents in the past and claimed many lives.
Since assuming office in October, Bhutto has maintained a rapport with  religious groups, vowing to lead the country on an enlightened, liberal path.
There has not been the same clamour that surfaced during her previous term  in office from 1988 to 1990 when fundamentalists said Islam did not allow  woman's rule.
Bhutto also chose a prominent religious personality, chief Maulana Fazalur  Rehman of the Jamiat Ulema Islam, as head of a parliamentary foreign affairs  committee.
When a Christian, accused of having blasphemed the prophet Mohammed was  assassinated in Lahore in April, Bhutto did not speak out. Nor was there any  official reaction last month when a Moslem accused of burning a copy of the  Koran was stoned.
Political analysts said skirmishes on the religious front were not  unexpected as the government moved to translate into action its ambitious  liberal agenda, including women's rights and protection of minorities.
