West European, Russian and US foreign ministers  held extensive talks in Geneva on Friday in a fresh effort to agree a workable  peace plan for Bosnia-Hercegovina and end the war in the former Yugoslav  republic.
US Secretary of State Warren Christopher met with British Foreign  Secretary Douglas Hurd, French Foreign Minister Alan Juppe, German Foreign  Minister Klaus Kinkel and the Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, as well  as their Belgian and Greek counterparts and a European Union representative.
The talks, originally expected to last some four hours, continued into  Friday evening.
After two years of destruction and division leaving tens of thousands of  people dead, wounded or displaced, frustration at the failure of previous  peace proposals marked the run-up to this high-level encounter.
France and its west European partners were set on wresting agreement on a  ceasefire and political settlement formula.
Juppe, whose country has furnished the largest contingent for United  Nations forces in Bosnia, has warned that the UN forces will not weather  another winter there without such a plan.
But the administration of US President Bill Clinton has been reluctant to  see an existing European settlement plan imposed on the Moslem-led government  in Sarajevo.
The US Senate also narrowly voted Thursday to unilaterally lift the arms  embargo on Bosnia, in a move to bolster the Moslem forces against the  Belgrade-backed Serb forces who have carved out their own  "ethnically-cleansed" territory in the republic.
The lower Russian house of parliament for its part voted Friday to no  longer adhere to the UN sanctions against the rump Yugoslavia of Serbia and  its tiny Montenegrin ally.
Friday's Duma resolution stipulated that in the event of a "unilateral  lifting by a state of the embargo on arms deliveries to Bosnia," Russia would  have to respond with "adequate measures that could go as far as raising the  question of a unilateral exit from the sanctions regime."
Neither vote can take immediate or binding effect. Observers regarded them  rather as straws in the wind expressing exasperation over the Bosnian conflict  and underlining the growing pressure to come up with a solution.
The Geneva meeting was expected to issue a declaration calling for a new  ceasefire and reaffirming the desired principles of a political settlement.
But there have been continuing problems over the division of territory to  be apportioned to the warring parties.
An existing European plan gives 51 percent of Bosnia-Hercegovina to the  Croats and Moslems, and 49 percent for the Serbs, who through their war-gains  currently control about 70 percent.
The Bosnian Croats and Moslems, who under US auspices have separately  reached agreement to set up a federation within the former Yugoslav republic,  have demanded 58 percent for this federation.
Bosnia's vice-president Ejup Ganic and Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic were  scheduled to finalise the federation plan in Geneva Saturday with Christopher  and Croatian Foreign Minister Mate Granic.
The whole Bosnian question is also expected to come up again at a meeting  in Brussels Monday of EU foreign ministers.
Earlier, Pakistani ambassador Hamad Kamal said here that Islamic nations  stood ready to provide peacekeeping troops to defend the people of  Bosnia-Hercegovina if western UN forces were withdrawn.
He spoke after representatives of the 51-state Organization of the Islamic  Conference (OIC) met in urgent session in Geneva and expressed "deep concerns"  at the state of peace negotiations for Bosnia.
The OIC noted threats by some countries to withdraw their forces but  warned against such action without analysis of its impact on the situation on  the ground and the drafting in of replacement troops, "for which adequate  offers already exist from several OIC member states."
