A giant comet will crash into Jupiter in July  with a force greater than the largest nuclear bombs ever built, scientists  said Wednesday.
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration said the comet dubbed  Shoemaker-Levy 9 would collide with the largest planet in the solar system  between July 16 and 22, creating an explosion equivalent to a 21 million  megatonne bomb.
"The impact will deliver more energy to Jupiter than the largest nuclear  warheads ever built, and up to a significant franction of the energy delivered  by the impat which is generally thought to have caused the extinction of the  dinosaurs on Earth," NASA said.
The agency said the impact of the comet, named after the scientists who  discovered it, could help gain a better understanding of the physical  processes of such collision in the solar system.
"The impact of comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 onto Jupiter represents the first  time in human history that people have discovered a body in the sky and been  abel to predict its impact ona planet more than seconds in advance," NASA said.
Astronomers predict the comet's more than 20 fragments would hit Jupiter's  dark side, which cannot be seen from Earth.
But NASA scientists hope to gain information by observing the impact from  several space vessels.
These include the Hubble space telescope, which was repaired last  December, and has provided new images of the comet.
The Galileo space proble, which is en route to Jupiter, is likely to  produce the best pictures of the collision from its vantage point some 240  million kilometers (150 million miles) from the planet.
More images may come from and the space probe Voyager, some six billion  kilometers (four billion miles) away, and indirect images may come from  Ulysses, 800 million kilometers (500 million miles) away and froman Extreme  Ultraviolet Explorer satellite.
Scientists say the comet fragments will be bombarded by particles as it  approaches Jupiter's magnetic field and heat up. It is likely to break up some  300 to 400 kilometers (180 to 250 miles) from the surface, leading to  explosions and huge fireballs.
