Authorities in the breakaway Russian Caucasus  republic of Chechnya accused Monday the Russian secret service of staging an  assassination attempt on President Dzhokhar Dudayev.
A spokesman for Dudayev said that last Friday's car-bomb attack near the  capital Grozny was the work of "local experts working for Yevgeny Primakov",  the head of Russia's foreign intelligence service.
Movlady Udugov told AFP by phone from Moscow that the Russian secret  service was also behind the hijacking of a schoolbus in southern Russia last  week that ended with a gunbattle between interior ministry elite troops and  the hijackers in Chechnya.
However, Tatiana Samolis, spokeswoman for the Russian foreign intelligence  service, dismissed the Chechen claims as groundless, stating that they were a  "fabrication bordering on nonsense and absurdity", ITAR-TASS reported.
Dudayev escaped unhurt from the car-bomb attack but Chechen interior  minister Magomed Eldiyev, his deputy in charge of criminal affairs, Said Ali  Batayev and their driver were all killed.
Dudayev's 11 year-old son was hit by glass in the attack but his condition  was decribed as "satisfactory", according to Chechen foreign ministry  officials quoted by Interfax.
His wife was also hurt but there were no details on her condition.
Chechen authorities claimed Saturday that the explosives used in the  attack were of the type used by the Russian secret service.
Chechnya, a Moslem republic nestled in the northern Caucasus, declared  independence from Moscow in November 1991 and has since ignored all federal  authority on its territory.
Udugov said that the hijacking of a schoolbus by four armed gunmen last  week was used by Moscow elite forces as a smokescreen to penetrate Chechen  territory.
The hijackers, who were Chechen nationals, took hostages on the bus near  the Caucasus town of Mineralnye Vody as it travelled from the North Ossetian  city of Vladikavkaz to Stavropol, in southern Russia.
The hijackers fled by helicopter from Mineralnye Vody with several million  dollars in ransom money and landed in Chechnya where three of the four gunmen  were arrested.
Udugov said that all four hijackers were arrested Friday and that Moscow  was using the incident to stir up anti-Chechen sentiment.
The Chechen foreign ministry accused Moscow on Monday of waging what it  described as "state terrorism" and said that Grozny would "not respond by  resorting to terror."
In a statement, the foreign ministry claimed that the assassination  attempt on Dudayev was "the latest in a series of terrorist acts engineered by  the Russian secret service in the past three years of Chechnya's independence."
Russian authorities last week announced that President Boris Yeltsin would  would meet Dudayev to try to normalise ties but Grozny claimed that it has not  received an invitation from Moscow.
