Egyptian authorities have arrested at least 36  lawyers in 24 hours including the main defence lawyer for a Moslem militant  group in a crackdown after a protest march was violently broken up by police,  lawyers said Wednesday.
It is the highest number of lawyers ever arrested in one sweep and came  after police used tear-gas to stop Tuesday's march protesting the death of a  colleague in police detention.
Many other lawyers have been summoned to appear before prosecutors,  sources said.
Nine lawyers, including Muntasser al-Zayat, the main defence lawyer for  the armed Jamaa Islamiyya, were arrested at dawn Wednesday, the bar  association said Wednesday.
They joined 27 other lawyers among the 39 people arrested when  baton-wielding riot police intervened with tear gas as about 6,000  demonstrators tried to march on the presidential palace.
The Egyptian Human Rights organisation condemned the security services for  "resorting to violence in a relentless fashion" to disperse the demonstration  saying they had thrown tear-gas bombs "directly at the lawyers instead of into  the air."
Three members of the bar association which is dominated by Moslem  fundamentalists were among those arrested at dawn, the association said.
All three are members of the outlawed Molsem Brotherhood which is largely  tolerated by the authorities.
President Hosni Mubarak has sworn to fight Islamic extremism and the Jamaa  Islamiyya who launched a violent campaign to topple his government more than  two years ago.
Mubarak recently blamed the Moslem Brotherhood for "being behind all the  subversive activities."
Another bar member Mohamed Hamdum said two Coptic lawyers had also been  detained.
And another lawyer Tarek al-Awadi handed himself over to the authorities  Tuesday after his father and brother were taken hostage by security forces to  flush him out of hiding.
The lawyers had wanted to hand over a petition calling for a new autopsy  on the body of their colleague Abdel Hareth Maandi who died in police  detention at the end of April.
Last week, the prosecutor general's office issued a preliminary report by  legal medical experts concluding he had been tortured to death. But the  interior ministry insisted he died of an asthma attack, an explaination  rejected by the association.
They were also demanding the release of 34 lawyers detained before the  demonstration.
In an unusual gesture, the government meanwhile released 38 suspected  Moslem extremists held in a prison south of Cairo, according to the state-run  Middle East News Agency.
MENA quoted Interior Minister Hassan al-Alfi saying the men were freed   because they had "repented and given up extremists religious thinking."
There are no official figures for the number of detainees, but they are  thought to number between 20,000 to 30,000.
