Millions of voters headed to the polls across  India on Thursday to cast their ballots in by-elections in 12 states, from  Tamil Nadu on the southern coast to Himachal Pradesh in the hilly north.
Seven seats in parliament, the Lok Sabha, and 10 state assembly seats are  at stake in balloting expected to provide an indication of the strength of the  ruling Congress (I) Party ahead of full-fledged state polls later this year.
Among the most closely-watched races will be the head-to-head battles  between Congress candidates and representatives of the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP, Indian People's Party).
In the sprawling central state of Madhya Pradesh, Chief Minister Digvijay  Singh of the Congress needs to win a seat in the state assembly if he is to  remain in power.
Singh, whose Congress wrested control of the state government from the BJP  in state polls in November, is facing a stiff challenge from BJP candidate  Ramvallab Kasat but is expected to scrape home.
About one million voters are eligible to fill two vacant Lok Sabha seats  in the eastern state of Bihar, where police reservists with shoot-on-sight  orders have been deployed to prevent any trouble during polling.
The centrist opposition party, the Janata Dal, is expected to capture both  seats in Bihar, India's most lawless state.
Trouble of another sort is brewing in the neighboring state of Orissa,  where a herd of wild elephants is threatening to disrupt voting for a Lok  Sabha seat in Mayurbhanj district.
The seven elephants have killed one person and flattened more than a dozen  homes in a rampage which began after they strayed from their sanctuary in  Bihar into Mayurbhanj.
Forest department officials armed with burning torches and firecrackers  have been deployed around polling places to keep the pachyderms away.
In Tamil Nadu, two state assembly seats are up for grabs in an election  seen as a test of the popularity of Chief Minister Jayalalitha Jayaram, a  formidable former film actress with a cult-like following in the coastal state.
In the northern hill state of Himachal Pradesh, Narinder Thakur of the BJP  is seeking to replace his father, state assemblyman Jagdev Chand, who died in  December. He is facing the Congress (I)'s Anita Verma.
One Lok Sabha and two state assembly seats are up for grabs in West  Bengal, India's only Marxist-rule state. The Communist Party of India  (Marxist), which has held sway in the state for 17 years, is the clear  favorite.
Voters will also be casting ballots for Lok Sabha and state assembly seats  in Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Nagaland, Punjab and Rajasthan.
By-elections had also been due Thursday in Uttar Pradesh, India's most  populous state, but were postponed until September by India's no-nonsense  Chief Election Commissioner T.N. Seshan.
Seshan on Sunday ruled that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mulayam Singh  Yadav had violated election rules and earned unfair advantage by using a  helicopter to stump for candidates of his Samajwadi Party.
Chastened, Yadav said he would "walk, ride a bicycle or a bullock cart" in  the future, but he earned an unexpected victory on Wednesday when the Supreme  Court overturned Seshan's ruling and ordered the voting held next week.
Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao's Congress party has sought to minimize  the importance of the by-elections, which come ahead of crucial state assembly  polls in 10 states later this year and early next year.
But the respected Times of India newspaper said Thursday that the results  of the by-elections "will serve as an index of the people's mood."
"They could well indicate the changes to come later this year," it said.
