Diplomats now drive all the way from Damascus to  play at Lebanon Golf Club, where bombs and bullets used to provide an  alternative to the more usual hazards of sand traps and lakes.
It's a far cry from the dark days when Israeli tanks flattened everything  in sight, including the club house, and the fratricidal civil war turned the  fairways into a battle zone.
Every Friday, the Japanese's ambassador in golf-starved Syria drives from  Damascus for a fourball.
His Swiss and Argentinian counterparts are also regulars at Lebanon.
The 6,017-yard course, with a standard scratch score of 72, is now dotted  with eucalyptus, cypress and olive trees, an artificial lake and smooth,  rolling hills.
But it was one of the first casualties of the 1982 Israeli invasion.
"When the Israeli tanks rolled into Beirut they bulldozed everything in  sight. There was nothing left. We had to replant 5,000 trees," said Salim  Salaam, the Lebanese president of the Arab federation of golfers.
Caddy master Kassem Ajami, 48, recalled how he dodged bullets when he  watered the course or pitched the hole-flags during the war, the invasion, and  a siege by the Shiite Amal militia of Palestinian refugee camps nearby.
"One day I was pinned down by gunfire and rockets for four-to-five hours.  I hid behind the wheel of my tractor and then I moved to a sand trap until the  fighting died down," remembered Ajami, a 48-year-old father of four.
"Another day a Palestinian caddy ran down a hill to look for a ball and  fell on a Israeli cluster bomb. His legs were badly injured in the blast but  he survived," said Ajami, who has been working at the course for 36 years.
But a round in 1979 ended in permanent paralysis for Ali Dabbous when he  was hit by a stray bullet.
Water and power shortages which lasted for weeks at a time during the  invasion and the civil war posed a nightmare for ground keepers who had to  truck in cisterns to keep the grass green.
Now the golf course uses five artesian wells for water and generators for  the power supply, said Salaam, a former chairman of Middle East airlines, the  Lebanese national carrier.
Salaam, who learned the game as an undergraduate at Harvard University in  1959, still remembers the momentous visits here in the early 1970s by  Argentina's Robert de Vicenzo, a former British Open champion, and Golf  architect Robert Trent-Jones.
De Vicenzo demonstrated golfing techniques while Trent-Jones advised on  how to improve the course layout.
The club's constitution was drafted in 1922 at the US consulate in Beirut  by a group of American, British and French diplomats.
In 1963 the club moved from its former location along the airport road to  the Bir Hassan area which skirts Palestinian refugee camps in Beirut's  southern suburbs.
Half of the course is located on government land. "Nine of the holes are  owned by the civil aviation department who have a communications center next  door to the club house," said Salam.
"It used to be just sand here. The sand was doing harm to the equipment of  the civil aviation department so we convinced them to rent us the land and in  exchange we grass it," he said.
Annual subscription for a married couple runs at 1,000 dollars a year in  addition to an entrance fee of 8,000 dollars per family, 6,000 dollars for a  single male and 4,400 dollars for single ladies.
Guests pay only a 25 dollar daily greenfee.
In addition to the course, the club offers swimming, tennis, billiards and  squash to around 650 regular users and 250 overseas users who usually return  to Lebanon in the summertime only. A golf shop is being developed.
Earlier this month it hosted its first post-war pan-Arab tournament, one  in a series of sporting events that Lebanon has decided to organise in an  effort to re-establish itself on the regional map.
It is also planning to launch a Lebanon Open, and hopes to revive the  Nile-Cedar Cup between Lebanon and Egypt, which was last played in 1970.
