Amnesty International on Tuesday called on the  Chinese government to release "thousands" of prisoners who it said remain in  jail after the crushing of the 1989 Chinese pro-democracy movement.
In a report marking the fifth anniversary this Saturday of the Tiananmen  Square massacre, the London-based human rights organisation said: "Despite  China's rapid economic changes that have increased freedoms and relaxed social  controls, there has been no fundamental change in the government's human  rights policy."
The 47-page Amnesty report, distributed to the foreign press here, said  arbitrary arrest, unfair trials, torture and use of the death penalty were  widespread.
Thousands of Chinese arrested in 1989 are still being held, many in  arduous conditions, and some of them undergo torture, the document said,  citing several cases, particularly in Hanyang prison, in the central province  of Hubei.
Amnesty said the number of political prisoners in China is far above the  3,000 so-called "counter-revolutionaries" given by the authorities.
This is because many people sentenced after Tiananmen Square were jailed  on such charges as "disturbing public order" or "destroying public property,"  which meant they would never be officially categorised as political offenders.
The report says 171 people have been held in a "Reform Through Labour"  camp in Qinghe, between Beijing and Tianjin, over the past five years, and  another group of 35 demonstrators are being held in Beijing's Number 2 prison.
It also identifies 75 persons killed by the People's Liberation Army on  June 4 1989 and the following days.
The crushing of the seven-week-old movement left 300 dead, according to an  official count, although human rights groups and dissidents say the real toll  is in the thousands.
Amnesty called on the Chinese government to launch an inquiry into the  bloodshed, to compensate families who lost relatives and prosecute those  responsible.
The Amnesty report comes on the heels of a study by the New York-based  group Human Rights Watch/Asia, which says that several hundred pro-democracy  demonstrators in Beijing alone are still behind bars.
