The UN Human Rights Commission prepared Wednesday  to send a team to Rwanda to investigate an ethnic bloodbath and recommend  measures to end it, but some African nations opposed mentioning genocide in a  final communique.
Delegates were closing a two-day emergency session called to consider a  report by UN Human Rights Commissioner Jose Ayala Lasso, who demanded urgent  action following a visit to Rwanda.
They were due in the evening to appoint a special rapporteur to visit the  central African nation, seek ways to stop the killing that has left about half  a million dead by some estimates, and name those responsible for possible  trial for war crimes.
During the day, however, Sudan, Algeria and Egypt opposed a clause in the  draft resolution of the conference that used the word "genocide" in speaking  of the butchery, some sources in the delegations from 53 nations and several  non-governmental organisations (NGOs) said.
These three countries, either locked themselves in civil war or facing  serious domestic unrest, did not want a motion passed under the UN Convention  on Genocide that could one day blow up in the faces.
Several organisations severely criticised the commission for failing to  act on previous, documented reports of atrocities in Rwanda with measures that  could have helped prevent the current carnage.
In a statement in London, Amnesty International said the commission had  done nothing though it had discussed Rwanda at a regular session a month  before the latest bout of blood-letting began after the April 6 death of  president Juvenal
Habyarimana in a suspected rocket attack on his plane.
Several delegations asked to hear from the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front  (RPF), drawn mainly from the ethnic Tutsi minority, after listening Tuesday to  the viewpoint of the Hutus who have formed an interim government since the  plane crash.
But RPF representative in Switzerland Deogratias Mushayidi told AFP that  the Front refused to speak in the form of a non-governmental organization, as  UN rules permit, because this would "be tantamount to recognising the  legitimacy of the government (which) we refuse to meet."
In a statement released here, the rebel's self-styled deputy prime minister  Jacques Bihozagara accused the commission of "apparently showing approval of a  government of criminals." He added that the guerrillas, which was besieging  the capital Kigali on Wednesday, controlled about two-thirds of Rwanda.
The commission heard Wednesday from South Africa's Anglican Archbishop  Desmond Tutu, who called on Rwandans to end the "ghastly carnage", in which  extremist Hutu militias only loosely controlled by the government have in  particular been accused of exterminating Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
"We say, Rwandans, can't you try to resolve your differences?" the Nobel  peace laureate pleaded.
He compared the bloodbath in Rwanda with developments in his own country,    which saw an end to apartheid with the historic first all-race elections last  month and the installation of President Nelson Mandela.
"In South Africa, we had every reason to be torn apart," Tutu said. "Yet  it is mindboggling to think that jailers and jailed, torturers and tortured,  oppressors and oppressed are now saying: we have one government, one  president, one flag.
"Yes it is a miracle, a gift of God."
Answering a question, Tutu said: "I will go to Rwanda, if it seems likely  there (will be) any positive results."
