Malaysia Tuesday indicated it was ready to  end its boycott of British firms following a personal appeal by British Prime  Minister John Major for a quick resumption of normal economic ties.
Visiting British Trade Minister Richard Needham said Major had expressed  hope that Premier Mahathir Mohamad "would not take too long" to lift the ban,  which officials said was costing British firms millions of dollars in lost  contracts.
"In his letter, our prime minister also thanked Mahathir for the Malaysian  government's assistance in the rescue of British soldiers," Needham said,  after talks with Malaysia's international trade minister, Rafidah Aziz.
Needham was referring to the rescue of five British soldiers trapped on  Malaysia's Mount Kinabalu in March.
Needham, who flew in late Monday for a two-day visit, earlier met with  Mahathir for 20 minutes, before holding talks with his deputy, Anwar Ibrahim,  officials said.
"My meeting with Mahathir was positive. I left some ideas with the prime  minister for the Malaysian government (to consider) about our long-term  relationship," said Needham, who said on arrival he was conveying a  confidential message from Major to Mahathir.
Major had also proposed establishing a long-term framework to enhance  British-Malaysian economic ties, which, according to Rafidah, would provide  the mechanism to nip in the bud potential problems affecting bilateral  relations.
Malaysia barred British firms from bidding for government contracts on  February 25, following reports in the British media of corruption in  Anglo-Malaysian trade and in Mahathir's administration.
London's Sunday Times was singled out for its February 20 article alleging  links between Mahathir and British construction firm Wimpey International.
"The atmosphere is more conducive for us to start thinking about making  decisions to reverse our earlier decision," Rafidah told reporters.
"I am confident it will end. But timing I can't say when," Rafidah said,  adding that it was really the British media which should ensure that it did  not do anything to undermine the economic relationship "because it will  boomerang."
Anwar, commenting on Needham's fence-mending mission, indicated promising  signs that the ban could be lifted, but declined to say how soon the decision  would be taken.
"It is too premature to say (when the ban can be lifted), but it looks  promising," Anwar said, before talks with Needham.
Needham later told reporters that he had not expected to get the ban lifted  Tuesday, although London had been working very hard towards convincing Kuala  Lumpur to do so, "by building on our long, historical relationship."
"But that was not the point of my coming here," Needham said, adding that  he would be coming back to Malaysia as the the head of a business delegation  from June 5 to 7.
