The US, western Europe and Russia have finally  agreed on a joint approach to put Bosnian peace efforts back on track, but  failed Saturday to win anything other than criticism from the warring parties.
The peace-plan endorsed by the US and Russia and five west European states  in Geneva late Friday would provide 51 percent of Bosnia-Hercegovina to a  Croat-Moslem federation and 49 percent to Serbs.
Bosnian Vice-President Ejup Ganic said: "They (the leading powers) want us  to achieve a peace settlement and at the same they want us to swallow the  results of ethnic cleansing. Those two things are contradictory."
While the Geneva meeting participants previously epoused the principle of  rejecting territorial gains made by force, they had urged acceptance of the  51/49 percent plan, "which of course will not produce results," Ganic said.
Ganic said: "We are being squeezed by the international community."
"If you legitimize ethnic cleansing and genocide then of course it means  that you give a green light for similar cases to start somewhere else," Ganic  also warned.
Warning of the danger of "rewarding aggression," Bosnian Prime Minister  Haris Silajdzic saw shortcomings in the Geneva call for a four-month ceasefire  and a fresh negotiations to begin within two weeks.
He said the approach adopted by US Secretary of State Warren Christopher  and the European foreign ministers contained no time schedule for  implementation of the peace plan, and no "guarantees" for the Bosnian Moslems.
"Force should be used to implement the peace agreement," Silajdzic also  said. He suggested a time-frame of one month. "If any party violates the  schedule measures should be taken," Silajdzic said.
Meanwhile the Belgrade-backed Serb forces, which control about 70 percent  of the former Yugoslav republic as a result of their war-gains in over two  years of conflict, said the Moslems and Croats could not have even 51 percent.
Momcilo Krajisnik, speaker of the Bosnian Serbs' self-styled parliament,  said the Moslems and Croats could not have more territory than the Serbs "as  they are neither the moral nor military victors" and did not own that much.
"We believe that one has to take into account the situation on the ground,  namely that the Serbs control 73 per cent of the territory and that they are  owners of 64 percent," the Bosnian Serb news agency quoted him as saying.
Ganic said that the 51 percent for Croats and Moslems did not provide  enough place for the people concerned.
But he found "interesting" the Geneva meeting's call for a cessation of  hostilities and withdrawal of heavy artillery. "I think that this is something  we will look carefully at and that we will negotiate with the Serbs," he said.
In Sarajevo, Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic said he considered a  four-month ceasefire unacceptably long and that two months should suffice to  reach a solution to the conflict.
As an incentive to the Serbs to make peace, Friday night's final  declaration held out the prospect of a phased suspension of international  sanctions against the rump Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) in return for  compliance in good faith with a peace agreement.
Saturday also saw Christopher toast a US-brokered agreement for a  federation of Moslem Bosnians and Croats with a glass of champagne and hopeful  words, but there was no formal signing ceremony, contrary to previous  expectations.
A framework had been established for protecting the political and human  rights of the people who lived in the federation, Christopher said. "The  darkness of inter-ethnic strife is slowing giving way to a glimmer of  reconciliation."
The message of the ceremony was that peace could be achieved through  negotiations, he said.
Despite all efforts, the international community has so far been unable to  resolve the main conflict which erupted in Bosnia-Hercegovina when the Serbs  refused to accept its independence amid the break-up of Yugoslavia.
