Russia's rebel republic of Chechnya vowed Tuesday  to rebuff any attempt by Moscow to use troops to enforce a decree by President  Boris Yeltsin taking over two Caucasus regions Chechnya considers part of its  territory.
Chechen Foreign Minister Shamseddin Yussef was quoted by the Interfax news  agency as saying that the republic's leadership "will take adequate measures  to repell any aggression from Russian troops."
The warning came after Yeltsin imposed a state of emergency on the  disputed region of Sunja and imposed direct Moscow rule on the region of  Malgobek in a decree signed Monday.
The dispute over the two regions located west of the Chechen capital of  Grozny erupted after the republic of Chechen-Ingushetia was divided into two  separate republics in 1991.
Chechnya, a tiny Moslem province in the northern Caucasus, subsequently  declared independence from Moscow in the fall of 1991 and has rejected all  federal authority over its territory.
The border between Chechnya and neighboring Ingushetia has never been  defined but Moscow considers Sunja and Malgobek to be part of Ingushetia.
Interfax quoted Chechen warlords as saying that they planned to stage  military manoeuvres in border areas on Tuesday in line with a decision last  week to place republican troops on alert.
In a statement sent to the media Tuesday, the Chechen foreign ministry  said that the two disputed regions were "an integral part of the territory of  the Chechen state" and accused Moscow of attempting to resolve its differences  with Chechnya through the use of force.
"In protesting terrorism and the provocational acts of Russia, the  government and people of the Chechen republic appeal to the international  community to bring Russia to reason," the Chechen foreign ministry said.
Meanwhile, Russia's upper house of parliament, the Federation Council, was  to examine later during the day the presidential decree and determine whether  troops will be sent to enforce the order.
Movladi Udugov, spokesman for Chechen President Djokhar Dudayev said the  rebel leadership was examining the text of the decree and that "if the region  of Sunja is concerned, then we would consider this to be a declaration of war  from Russia."
"The entire Chechen people will rise against it," Udugov said.
The move to tighten the noose around Chechnya came two weeks after Yeltsin  appointed a new nationalities minister, Nikolai Yegorov, signalling the  Kremlin's resolve to bring the republic in line.
Presidential aides have described Chechnya as the epicenter of Russian  crime and a major drug and arms trafficking center which threatens the  stability of the entire Caucasus region.
Yeltsin last fall announced that he would send border troops to Chechnya  and impose an economic blockade on the republic in a bid to force Chechnya  into submission to Moscow.
Tension has mounted in the past days between Moscow and Grozny after  Dudayev escaped from a car-bomb attack last Friday which Chechen authorities  claim was staged by Russian secret services.
Three Chechen officials including the interior minister were killed in the  explosion and Dudayev's wife and son were hurt.
