New Zealand Prime Minister Jim Bolger starts a  two-day visit here Monday officially focused on an upcoming Asia Pacific  Economic Cooperation forum but with the situation in East Timor likely to  become an issue.
Bolger, who arrived Sunday in Yogyakarta, central Java, begins the  official part of his visit in Jakarta Monday, the first since his predecessor  David Lange in 1988.
Indonesian State Secretary Murdiono said the talks between host President  Suharto and Bolger will mostly focus on "what the two countries could  contribute during the second informal summit of APEC, to be held in Indonesia  in November."
But Bolger's visit comes against a background of rising criticism in New  Zealand over the human rights situation in the former Portuguese colony of  East Timor which Jakarta unilaterally declared its 27th province in 1976.
More than half New Zealand's 97 members of parliament earlier this month  signed a petition expressing concern at the situation in East Timor after  seeing a controversial film on the territory by British journalist John Pilger.
They urged Bolger to express their human rights concerns "in the strongest  possible terms" to the Indonesian government.
Indonesian troops invaded East Timor in 1975 and annexed it the following  year but the United Nations continues to view Lisbon as the administrator of  the area.
New Zealand Governor General Catherine Tizard added fuel to the  controversy when she told new Indonesian Ambassador Tengku Dahlia Sumolang  recently that East Timor continued to be of concern to New Zealanders.
Wellington's own envoy here, Timothy Grosser, was quick to assure Jakarta  that New Zealand fully recognized East Timor as part of Indonesia. But he  would not say whether Bolger would be raising the issue.
Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas dismissed the New Zealand MPs as  "only a small group of people with limited knowledge about the latest  developments in our country."
Twenty-five leading New Zealand businessmen are taking advantage of  Bolger's high profile visit to Jakarta to drum up trade in Indonesia. Annual  two-way trade is running at about 200 million US dollars.
Indonesia and New Zealand cooperate closely on various issues at  international fora, including APEC which Indonesia currently chairs.
They are both members of APEC which also includes Australia, Canada, the  United States, Mexico, Japan, South Korea, China, Hongkong, Papua New Guinea,  Taiwan, Brunei, the Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand.
Bolger, who is pushing for closer economic, political and cultural ties  with Asia, leaves Indonesia on Wednesday to visit other member countries of  the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) which groups Brunei,  Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand.
