Four decades after Pondicherry joined  the Indian union, nearly 10,000 French nationals remain in this former French  colony on the shores of the Bay of Bengal.
But their numbers are shrinking every year and French influence is  dwindling in this coastal strip of southern India, which former prime minister  Jawaharlal Nehru once said he hoped would remain "France's window into India."
"It's very worrying," Amalor Arago, a 68-year-old mathematics teacher at  the local French lycee, said of the exodus. "Many young people leave for  France and don't come back."
Arago, who publishes "Trait d'Union," a bulletin aimed at providing "a  link between France and India," said the use of French has also fallen  dramatically.
"The knowledge of French here is on the decline and in a few more decades  I wonder how many people will still speak it," he said.
"There is no future for the French in Pondicherry," added Arago, who is  close to retirement after a teaching career that has taken him to French  schools in Laos, Morocco and the Ivory Coast.
More than 300 years of French domination have nevertheless left their mark  on Pondicherry, which has a population of about 800,000 and the flavor of a  French country town in the tropics.
Numerous streets in the French quarter have retained their French names:  Rue Dumas, Rue de la Caserne, Rue Mahe de la Bourdonnais.
Policemen here wear the kepi of the French gendarme and a statue of Joseph  Francois Dupleix, a former French governor-general, stands near a bronze bust  of Mahatma Gandhi.
There is also a monument to Joan of Arc and a memorial to the French  Indian soldiers who died "for the motherland."
According to the French consulate in Pondicherry, there are more than  9,000 French nationals in the territory while about 50,000 French citizens of  Indian origin have moved to France.
Some 1,400 of the French here live off civilian or military pensions, many  of them former soldiers who served in Indochina or Algeria. Their pensions of  between 3,000 and 7,000 francs a month represent a considerable sum in India.
Arago said that because of the largesse of the French government, the  French community here is subject to "some jealousy" from the local population.  "People say we are responsible for prices going up," he acknowledged.
But unemployment is a problem and nearly one-third of the French  population of Pondicherry is forced to make do with government handouts of  between 150 and 450 francs a month, close to the poverty line, a consular  official said.
Of the five French possessions in India at independence in 1947, the first  to join India was Chandernagore, following a referendum in 1950.
Pondicherry, Mahe, Karikal and Yanam followed suit in 1954, but their  formal adhesion to the Indian union did not come about until the 1962  ratification of a Franco-Indian treaty.
Many of the French here have never actually set foot in France, as is the  case with Zearamassandirayer, who opted for French nationality in 1962 and  taught at the local lycee from 1942 until his retirement in 1973.
The 80-year-old former teacher's passion for France is monumental -- he  has read nearly 400 books about Napoleon -- but has not been passed on to his  two children, both of whom have acquired Indian nationality.
