The ex-PLO peace talks spokeswoman Hanan Ashrawi  explained Sunday she had turned down a job on the new Palestinan Authority not  out of opposition but to focus on a human rights groups she has set up.
"I'm not turning away from responsibility ... I'm working on something  which I believe is important," she told AFP.
"I have a prior commitment to the Palestine Independent Commisison for  Citizen's Rights ... and that's where I feel I can be of most use.
"I feel that the National Authority should have people of commitment,  integrity and credentials. I have chosen where I want to be and that is one  way to participate in building our institutions."
Ashrawi said she had been asked several times, but consistently turned  down the offer.
"My refusal is not an opposition to the authority itself. I have  encouraged everyone to participate in different ways in building our  institutions. Everyone does not have to be in the authority," she said.
Palestine Liberation Organisation chairman Yasser Arafat named her as one  of 15 members to the new self-rule authority for Gaza and Jericho in a list  forwarded last week to Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin.
PLO chief negotiator Nabil Shaath said the authority would be ready to  take up its duties on Wednesday, by when the transfer of power in the  autonomous areas is expected to be complete.
But Ashrawi is reportedly not the only one to have spurned Arafat.
Israeli television said Arafat had appointed two other members Saturday --  Nablus businessman Munib al-Masri and university teacher Sari Nusseibeh, a  Middle East expert.
The appointments were formally approved in Tunis at a meeting of the PLO's  executive commitee which also nominated Yasser Abed Rabbo, head of the PLO's  information department, to the authority, a committee member Mohammed Zohdi  Nashashibi told AFP in Tunis.
However, sources close to Rabbo said he had asked for time to think about  it.
Ashrawi said her commission was now operational from the West Bank town of  Ramallah.
"The commission is operational already, but we have had some technical  problems such as setting up an office, so we are working from my home for the  moment."
