Ambassador-designate to India Frank Wisner  defended Tuesday the sale of 38 US F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan, arguing that  they would not alter Pakistan's power balance with India.
Wisner told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee during his confirmation  hearing that military security issues are a principal concern for the United  States but that delivery of the jets would not upset the balance.
The hearing was also timed to coincide with Indian Prime Minister P.V.  Narasimha Rao's arrival in Washington where he will address a joint session of  Congress on Wednesday and meet with President Bill Clinton on Thursday.
Senator Larry Pressler, a South Dakota Republican, asked Wisner whether  delivering the jets to Pakistan that can deliver a nuclear bomb would  accelerate nuclear capabilities in the region and upset the balance.
"Pakistan already has F-16s," Wisner told Pressler. "We think its fair to  say we don't believe F-16s would not materially alter the balance."
Pakistan has already paid for the jets but they were impounded in 1990  when the United States barred military aid to Pakistan.
In April, Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott tried to tempt Pakistan  with a deal to deliver the jets in exchange for a promise for a verifiable cap  on production by its nuclear facilities, but he came back empty-handed.
Washington is urging both India and Pakistan to reach an agreement to cap   their nuclear programs in the interests of non-proliferation in the region.
But Rao is under tremendous domestic pressure to resist US calls to cap  the nuclear program and freeze its missile defence programme.
Wisner, who is currently the undersecretary of defense for policy, would  bring considerable expertise to his new post as ambassador in dealing with  security issues in Asia, an area of considerable US interest.
The hearing for Wisner, who is fully expected to be confirmed, comes some  18 months after one of the key ambassadorial posts first went vacant, a matter  of some friction with India.
US investment and trade with India will be one of the administration's top  priorities in India, Wisner said, though differences on nuclear  nonproliferation and human rights will also top the agenda.
Wisner said the United States will also seek to create a regional  organization that will include other players beside Pakistan and India with  the aim of reaching agreement on nuclear test bans and caps on weapons and  missile development.
"I am not going to stand here and say it is going to be easy. It is not  going to be easy. There is a great deal of history involved. There are real  sensitivities, he said. "This is going to take some time."
"The core of the matter is to see if the United States can play a role in a  dangerous part of the world to help to bring about greater stability ... and  reduce some of the world's dangerous weapons systems."
