British tank driver Thomas Parry, 70, has  only bad memories of the battle of Normandy which he fought for six weeks in  US-built Sherman tanks until a German sniper put an end to his campaign with a  leg wound.
Liverpool-born Parry, who stayed on in Normandy after falling in love with  a French girl, tried to forget, but his post-war job of picking up the remains  of his dead comrades and then tending their graves for the Commonwealth War  Graves Commission made the task of oblivion difficult.
Parry, round-faced and kindly-looking, wanted to be a painter, but he was  called up at 17-and-a-half and  disembarked on the Normandy beaches from a  landing craft on June 12, 1944 at the age of 20. He was from the 2nd Fife and  Forfar Regiment in the 11th armoured division.
He resumed painting his naive pastoral canvasses only when he retired from  his job in the 1980s as head gardener at Ranville, near the Normandy capital  of Caen, in charge of six war cemeteries.
Asked if he had ever tried to make war paintings, Parry said: "They were  bad memories what I had. I tried to forget what I seen. What sticks in my  memory is dust, the smell of death and gunpowder."
Parry, who was never promoted beyond the rank of trooper, said contacts  with liberated French civilians were few. "I was in the front line. The French  kept their heads down. No one was there to come out to shake your hand."
But he said two young girls once tried to give them some flowers. "Just  once we was going into action. There was two girls who tried to give us the  flowers. The tank commander ordered me to take them in spite of the snipers. I  opened up to take the flowers."
Parry appealed for help to try to locate his mate Ben Mallett, from  Sheffield, northern England. "We lost touch when I was wounded. Do you think  you could help me to trace him," said Parry, turning away as tears filled his  eyes.
The Shermans with their 75-pound guns were pitted against heavier German  Tiger tanks with 88-pounders. The first petrol-driven Shermans were known as  "Tommy cookers" because their crews burned alive when they were hit.
The Sherman gun was like a "peashooter," Parry said. "I had two hits. One  in the turret, one right through the gearbox. If a shot got inside, you had  had it, it used to go round and round."
He remembered one occasion when the massive tracks of a Tiger reared up in  front of them over a hedgerow. "He didn't see us. The tank commander said  'Smoke'. We backed away in the smokescreen."
Parry said the Tigers could only be knocked out from the rear. "But our  advantage was we had plenty of Shermans in reserve and the Germans couldn't  replace their Tigers."
In one of the battles for Caen on July 18, about 400 British tanks were  knocked out.
Parry was hit by a sniper as he got out of the Sherman to cut wood for  camouflage as they prepared to go into action once again. At a field hospital,  he caught dysentery and subsequently volunteered to collect dead bodies at  Lion-sur-mer and Riva Bella on the coast.
He and his wife, Renee Perinelle, from Benouville, where first glider-born  British troops landed on D-Day on June 6, were married in 1945 and now live in  a quiet street in this village east of Caen. They have two daughters, four  grandchildren and a granddaughter.
"Girls are better to have than boys," said Parry. "They can't go into  battle."
agv
