A major concern of the teams here was that the aerodynamic changes they  were forced to bring in within 10 days had dangerous consequences, notably for  the strength of the rear wing.
Portuguese driver Pedro Lamy was seriously injured in testing last week  beacause of such a failure, which his Lotus team attributed to the new rules.
The measures, designed to cut engine power and reduce aerodynamic  efficiency, had been rushed in following the deaths of Brazilian Ayrton Senna  and Austrian Roland Ratzenberger at Imola and the Monaco crash which ended  with Karl Wendlinger in a coma.
Lotus boss Peter Collins said: "If we send out cars this weekend it will  be only to test the validity of the revised wing system. We have told the  other teams they should monitor their wings very closely."
As it was, Johnny Herbert of Britain brought his Lotus round the 4.747km  (2.949 mile) track in a sedate 2min 5.683sec. He set the slowest time and will  need to improve drastically in Saturday's session to qualify.
Within minutes of the qualifying sesion starting, Pacific driver Bertrand  Gachot hit the tyre wall forming the temporary chicane and the session was  stopped to rebuild it.
In the morning session, Austrian Gerhard Berger, a leader of the drivers'  association which demanded the chicane, had to take avoiding action when he  reached the spot on his first lap in his Ferrari.
Michael Schumacher, who has won the first four races of the season,  asserted his superiority as soon as he went out and immediately took  provisional pole position.
The German timed 1min 23.426sec in his Benetton-Ford, a full second faster  than Mika Hakkinen of Finland who timed 1:24.580 in a McLaren-Peugeot.
Damon Hill of Britain, in a Williams-Renault, was third fastest in  1:24.716 and fourth fastest was Jean Alesi of France who timed 1:24.957 in his  Ferrari.
Heinz-Harald Frentzen of Germany, brought in to replace Wendlinger, was a  surprising fifth-fastest in his Sauber-Mercedes in 1:25.115.
Rubens Barrichello of Brazil, back after escaping with only a broken nose  after crashing at 180mph the day before Senna was killed at Imola, was ninth  fastest. He timed 1:25.990 in his Jordan-Hart.
Eddie Irvine of Ireland, back after a three-race ban for causing a  multiple pile-up in the season's opening race in Brazil, was 12th fastest in  another Jordan, timed at 1:26.368.
David Coulthard, the 23-year-old Briton making his Grand Prix debut in  place of Senna, was 16th-fastest. The Williams-Renault test-driver timed  1:27.428.
