Vietnam's first labour code is likely to dominate  debate at a session of the National Assemby opening Thursday, as deputies  discuss how to meet the expectations of both foreign investors and workers.
Aiming to head off a further rise in the number of disputes, the labour  code lays down both basic working conditions and enshrines in law for the  first time the right to join unions and to strike.
But to appease concerns of foreign investors that union activity could  undercut the benefits of Vietnam's low wages, the law includes a "cooling off"  period during which labour officials would organise mediation.
"The law will include the right to strike but with a number of conditions  aimed at protecting both the workers and the reasonable interests of  employers," said top assembly official Vu Mao.
Heading the list of conditions is a stipulation that strikes "should not  affect the social life of the community," Mao said.
Reaction to drafts of the code has generally been favourable from both  sides, although unions have expressed disappointment that no minimum wage has  been included.
The minimum monthly wage, cut by 15 dollars to 35 dollars two years ago to  attract investors, will be set by government decrees to adapt to changing  conditions, Mao said. The government has reportedly brushed off calls from  unions for it to be raised to 50 dollars.
Strikes and unrest in foreign-owned factories have been on the rise this  year, with 69 cases reported up to the end of April, according to Pham Huy  Hoan, deputy editor-in-chief of the labour newspaper Lao Dong.
Hoan applauded the decision to insist on union representation in foreign  firms, saying it could curb the worst abuses in companies that "treat their  workers like slaves."
But he acknowleged that Vietnam could not afford to let foreign  investment, which has created 50,000 jobs so far, slip through its fingers by  driving labour costs too high.
"If we demand higher wages then investors will go elsewhere," he said.
With the law setting out working hours and conditions, both sides are  hoping it could end the problems that have plagued some manufacturers here,  particularly from Taiwan and South Korea.
"The law should go some way towards narrowing the gap of expectations that  exists between investors and local workers," a foreign businessman said.
Workers expect high wages and are not used to the demanding conditions in  joint ventures, he said, while investors are often too eager to squeeze more  profits by paying less than the minimum wage. Recent reports have said that  around 15 percent of foreign companies in Ho Chi Minh City are paying less  than 35 dollars a month.
But businessmen and diplomats here warned that while passing the law  seemed likely, its implementation has not been resolved, and those looking to  the code for a solution to their labour woes could be disappointed.
"It only takes a day to copy out the rules from some other country but it  can take a decade to change people's attitudes," a diplomat said.
The months after the law is passed could see confusion as the government  tries to work out how to apply and enforce the new measures within the  skeletal framework of Vietnam's judicial system, he said.
Deputies are to hammer out a final version of the law during the  month-long assembly session, which will also consider bills on local  government, investment and military service.
They are also expected to ratify the United Nations Law of the Sea, which  Vietnam has recently cited to back its claim of sovereignty over the disputed  Spratly Islands in the South China Sea.
