Congress, haunted by the costly thrifts  bailout, took up the issue of risky financial derivatives this week as the  White House and federal agencies argued against the need for more regulation.
Recently announced losses by several major banks and businesses -- among  them Bankers Trust, JP Morgan, Procter and Gamble, and Mead -- that used these  complex financial instruments have raised the specter of the 1980s savings and  loan failures that have cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars.
Derivatives, contracts with cash values "derived" from the price of  financial assets like bonds, stocks, commodities or currencies, have been in  use for about a dozen years. Most companies buy the swaps, options and futures  as a form of financial insurance.
Derivatives have evolved into highly speculative instruments whose global  market expanded to 12.1 trillion dollars in 1993. Largely unregulated,  fluctuations in derivatives on the financial markets have raised concerns with  monetary officials.
A recent report by the General Accounting Office (GAO), the congressional  watchdog agency, has fueled worries among US lawmakers particularly sensitive  to their constituents during this election year.
The GAO report urged legislation to expand supervision and control of the  derivatives activities of brokerage firms and insurance companies.
The idea drew opposition from the interested companies, as well as from  officials of the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commission  (SEC), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Federal Deposit  Insurance Corporation (FDIC) who testified Wednesday before a House of  Representatives subcommittee.
Such corrective legislation "is neither necessary nor desirable at this  time," said Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan. Any new legislation, absent broader  reform, "could actually increase risks in the US financial system" and damage  the entire system, he said.
For Andrew Hove, FDIC president, "appropriate supervision and risk control  over participation in the financial derivatives market by insured institutions  can be achieved without significant additional legislation."
Derivatives pose potential risks for their users and for the financial  market. Traded round-the-clock electronically on world markets, they could  accelerate a financial shock against other markets and institutions.
But for the US administration and regulatory agencies, existing mechanisms  are sufficient, although in need of some reinforcement.
Surveillance of banks and their accounting transparency on these products  should be tightened and the creation of a risk ratio measurement of derivative  products based on their capital appears likely.
Brokerages and other investment firms should clearly define and monitor  their operations in the market to improve their accounting reports, which are  nearly nonexistent.
Their operations in derivatives represented 5.1 trillion dollars in 1993,  38 percent more than in 1992. The total was basically shared among the six  largest US investment companies.
The SEC, which monitors financial markets, will tighten its oversight of  derivatives operations conducted by mutual and pension funds -- although  limited for the moment -- to encourage improved internal controls.
International cooperation to establish common guidelines should continue.
But specialists also emphasize that, for the most part, derivatives have  improved economic efficiency in allowing companies to better manage their  risks and that this success, not pure speculation, is the reason for their  popularity.
Above all, they warn that if the United States legislates derivatives, the  lucrative contracts will be traded in London or in Frankfurt instead, at a  loss to the US market.
