Ernesto Samper, of the ruling Liberal Party, and  leading Conservative, Andres Pastrana, will fight it out for the Colombian  presidency in a June 19 runoff after both failed to win 51 percent of the vote  in Sunday's presidential ballot.
With 97 percent of the votes counted, Samper held a slim 0.3 percent lead  over Pastrana giving him 45.2 percent against 44.9 percent for Pastrana, a  difference of 17,907 ballots, according to official results.
The abstention rate, traditionally high in Colombia, ran at 68 percent,  much greater than authorities had forecast in the 18-way race to pick a  successor to President Cesar Gaviria.
Gaviria is constitutionally barred from serving a second consecutive  four-year term.
Samper and Pastrana differ mainaly on economics, with Samper more cautious  about the pace of selling state-owned businesses and lifting trade barriers  than Pastrana, who campaigned a a free-marketeer.
Samper, 43, is an economist by training who served as Gaviria's  development  minister, and his path to the threshold of the presidency was  anything but smooth.
On March 3, 1989, when Samper was running as the Liberals' candidate in  the 1990 election, an assailant toting a machine gun opened fire in a grisly  scene at Bogota's airport, pumping 11 bullets into him, and felling leftist  leader Jose Antequera.
Antequera died, and Samper lived to tell about the four bullets he still  carries inside him as a reminder of the attack. Doctors were unable to remove  them.
Balding and a bit pudgy, with a heavy gait and droning speaking style, the  first impression Samper leaves might be somewhat deceptive. His surprising  energy and biting humor have taken a toll on many political foes.
An impressive student as a youth, Samper finished his university studies  by the time he reached 20.
By 25, he was the director of Colombia's Association of Financial  Institutions, the country's powerful "bankers union."
Samper entered politics in 1981 to run the campaign of Alfonso Lopez  Michelsen, who already had served as president from 1974-1978. Lopez Michelsen  lost to Belisario Betancur, but Samper himself still came out on top and in  1982 was named Colombia's UN ambassador.
Then Samper climbed the legislative ladder, winning election as a deputy  in 1984 and as a senator in 1986.
Pastrana, 39, son of ex-president Misael Pastrana, was a high-profile  television journalist with a law degree. His attractive looks and manners have  made him very popular among women and the younger generation of voters, but  his detractors say he is just a pretty face who lacks the experience to run  the country.
However, he was the capital's elected mayor from 1988 to 1990. He then  spent a year at Harvard University and when he returned he founded his own  political party, the New Democratic Force.
He is married to Nohora Puyana and has two children.
Sunday's elections and the campaign leading up to them were relatively  peaceful in comparison to the 1990 election in which three presidential  candidates were assassinated.
The defence ministry reported that army forces shot and killed three  rebles in the southern Huila province and a soldier was injured by members of  the Revolutionay Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) in southeastern Caldas  province.
There were also reports that rebels had burned three buses on a highway  along the Caribbean coast.
Police and military authorities deployed over 200,000 troops to keep the  peace and alcohol was banned during the polling, as were street festival that  traditionally accompany Colombian elections.
