The British economy is continuing to recover,  official figures showed on Wednesday, with unemployment and public sector  borrowing down, and key underlying inflation at its lowest point ever.
But economists expressed mild concern about average personal earnings  figures, which rose by a higher-than-expected four percent in the year to  March, compared with revised rises of 3.75 to January and February.
The figures, forecast at around 3.75 percent, "confirm our view that  British interest rates will go up sooner rather than later," said Nomura  economist Alison Southey, citing the figures' potential inflationary pressures.
But David McBaine, an economist at NatWest Markets, said that markets were  focusing on average earnings rather than retail prices or unemployment figures  because they were the furthest out of line with expectations.
He said the figures should be treated with caution as March was a  traditional month for the payment of bonuses.
Seasonally-adjusted unemployment fell a larger-than-expected 36,800 in  April to a total of 2,682,500, taking the unemployment rate to 9.5 percent of  the working population from 9.7 percent in March. Forecasts were for a fall of   20,000.
Employment Secretary David Hunt told the BBC: "We are the only European  country where unemployment is below 10 percent and falling."
Inflation rose to 2.6 percent in April from 2.3 percent the previous  month. Underlying inflation, which excludes mortgage interest payments and is  thought to be the more reliable figure, showed prices had risen by an annual  2.3 percent in April from 2.4 percent in March.
Analysts had predicted headline inflation at 2.7 percent and underlying  inflation at 2.5 percent.
Economists said that the imposition of sales value added tax (VAT) on  domestic fuel, increased council tax bills and a reduction in mortgage tax  relief from 25 percent to 20 percent, were largely responsible for the  increase in headline inflation.
The central statistical office said that underlying inflation was at its  lowest-ever recorded level. The previous record was in November 1967.
An economist at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Nick Parsons, said  the figures offered "some encouragement to the authorities with only modest  increases in the more demand-sensitive components of the retail price index."
The public sector borrowing requirement (PSBR) showed a budget deficit of  4.35 billion pounds (6.5 billion dollars) in April, the first month of the new  financial year, compared with 11.3 billion pounds in March.
The PSBR was one billion pounds less than forecast. The treasury had  forecast last November that the PSBR for the whole year would be 38 billion  pounds after 46 billion pounds in 1993-1994.
Meanwhile, the minutes of a March 30 monthly meeting between Chancellor of  the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke and Bank of England governor Eddie George showed  that they had agreed then that recent economic data and market volatility did  not justify a further cut in British rates.
According to the minutes published on Wednesday, Clarke had warned against  waiting too long to cut rates, but agreed with George that the prevailing  volatility in the bond and money markets "accentuated the need for a cautious  approach."
