Wednesday's French Open notebook:
Capped up
It had to happen sooner or later. After Mark Goellner made wearing a  baseball cap his sartorial trademark last year, it was inevitable that  somebody would come up with the idea of pointing the peak to the side.
Frenchman Guillaume Raoux has duly obliged, although he claims,  improbably, he was shielding his eyes from low sun, not trying to set a trend.
Andre Agassi and Jim Courier remain firmly attatched to the classic style,  even when the sun is nowhere to be seen -- although Agassi does have the  excuse that his keeps his hair in order.
For those that do not have a lucrative sponsorship deal, organisers of the  tournament have a supply on stand-by in the event of unexpected brightness.
About 100 are handed out each year, mostly to juniors although Ivan Lendl  -- career earnings: 20 million dollars -- is reported to be an avid consumer  of this freebie, requesting four in one day two years ago. (AFP)
Graf strolling to final
The woeful lack of competition in the women's game has been put sharply  into focus here with all the opposition in Steffi Graf's half of the draw  dissolving. From 1987, when Graf won her first Grand Slam here, only six  players have beaten her in Grand Slam tournaments. Out of that six, Monica  Seles is absent and Zina Garrison, Jana Novotna, Gabriela Sabatini and Martina  Navratilova have all gone out. That leaves only Arantxa Sanchez looking like  she can stop Graf winning her fifth straight grand slam title since Seles' was  stabbed. (AFP)
Capriati out of contact
Graf has failed in her attempt to pass a message of support to Jennifer  Capriati, currently in a drugs rehabilitation centre in Florida after her  arrest earlier this month. "We keep trying but it is always engaged. I think  they have left the phone off the hook," she said. (AFP)
Sampras copes with tension
Pete Sampras might be world number one and favourite to win the French  Open, but the American takes nothing for granted. Eric Breton, the director of  the restringing operation at Roland Garros, reports that Sampras was the most  frequent visitor to his workshop in the run up to the tournament.
The American broke the strings on 17 raquets in a bid to get his game into  a perfect groove on the Roland Garros clay courts. (AFP)
High noon for Rusedski
Canada's Greg Rusedski was caught off guard by an earlier-than-expected  start to his 2nd round match with Alexander Volkov. He arrived on court at  five to 12, ten minutes late and only five away from being defaulted. It  turned out all right in the end however as the Canadian overcame Alexander  Volkov in four sets. (AFP)
am94
