Tiana Thanh Nga, an American film-maker from  Vietnam, has come to preview her autobiographical film "From Hollywood to  Hanoi," -- a vibrant but controversial plea for reconciliation among all  Vietnamese.
Her documentary was shown Friday in Hanoi before a very select audience,  including film-makers, cultural ministry officials and famous figures such as  General Vo Nguyen Giap and former foreign minister Nguyen Co Thach.
The film expresses the feelings and follows the daily lives of "Viet Kieu"  (Vietnamese expatriates) living in the United States who fled their native  country after the communist victory in 1975, but also their compatriots who  stayed behind.
The story evolves from the personal recollections of Tiana Thanh Nga, who  has become a popular actress in Kung Fu films and is a rock singer in the  United States. She comes from an elite family in Saigon that was staunchly  anti-communist and emigrated to America in 1966. Her uncle was defence  minister in the former South Vietnamese government.
Filmed over the last six years, "From Hollywood to Hanoi" was produced by  Oliver Stone, director of such films as "Platoon," "Born on the Fourth of  July" and "Between Heaven and Earth," a trilogy on the Vietnam War.
Tiana, 33, said she was "sad to not have received the support of her  family and the Vietnamese in the United States who did not understand my  intentions."
"They were blinded by their resentment, and they have accused the  communists of having provoked all of this," she said in Hanoi.
"There is too much misunderstanding and despair for those we want to  help," she said, referring to the "hard core" of the about two million "Viet  Kieu" who refuse reconciliation.
At the Hanoi screening, Vietnamese cultural ministry officials said they  supported the film's "positive subject" and appreciated Tiana's "good will."  But they expressed some reservations about showing the film throughout Vietnam  and appeared offended by scenes showing the massacring of dogs, a popular meat  among Vietnamese.
There were also scenes of Vietnamese obsessed with marrying Americans, as  well as scenes showing chronic depression during the dark years before  Vietnam's economic opening.
"Some scenes should be adjusted to conform to the psychology of the  Vietnamese," said the vice-minister of culture, Vu Khac Lien, who expects a  "meticulous debate" before the film is released to the general public. The  cultural minister is in charge of censorship.
Nguyen Co Thach, a former Vietnamese foreign minister who supports  distributing the film throughout the country, said: "It's a film that helps  reconciliation. But this will be difficult because it shows "Viet Kieu" who  retain violently anti-communist positions."
General Giap said it "was difficult to make a film that was applauded in  both Vietnam and the United States."
Tiana has asked for authorization to show the film here, which she  financed by selling all of her belongings.
"What good would would it do if (her film) remains in the dark," she asked.
If everything goes well, the film will be shown November and December in  Hanoi, Danang and Ho Chi Minh City, according to an official from the  Commission for Vietnamese Overseas.
Tiana is also making a four-hour documentary titled "The War is Over, A  New Vietnam," scheduled to be released April 30, 1995, for the 20th  anniversary of the fall of Saigon.
