AC Milan won the European Champions Cup for the  third time in six years with a stunning 4-0 triumph over Barcelona here on  Wednesday.
The Spanish champions were ruthlessly exposed by a Milan performance that  was brilliantly orchestrated by their Montenegrin forward Dejan Savicevic.
The Montenegrin carved the Barcelona defence apart to create the crucial  opening goal for Daniele Massaro, had a hand in Massaro's second just before  the break and then scored a stunning third two minutes after the restart.
After robbing Josep Guardiola on the right touchline, Savicevic spotted  Andoni Zubizaretta off his line and audaciously lobbed him from the corner of  the penalty area to kill the match as a contest.
Marcel Desailly, a member of the Olympique Marseille team that beat Milan  1-0 in last year's final, rounded off a superb performance by breaking through  the Spaniards back four in the 58th minute and placing a right foot shot wide  of Zubizaretta.
Desailly, who marked Marco Van Basten out of last year's final, was again  the key to victory with his work at the heart of the Milan midfield.
By smothering their opponents in the middle of the park Fabio Capello's  side cut off the supply to Barcelona's forwards Hristo Stoichkov and Romario.
The deadly duo barely threatened all night despite the absence of Milan's  international central defenders Franco Baresi and Alessandro Costacurta, both  ruled out of the match by suspension.
Barcelona's spectacular performances in getting to the final had led many  to anticipate wave after wave of Catalan raids on the Milanese goal.
But it was the Italians who took a grip on the game right from the start  -- Savicevic, who won a European Cup medal with Red Star Belgrade in 1991,  skipping past Miguel Angel Nadal with ease as early as the sixth minute.
Stoichkov created Barcelona's only early chance with a long range shot in  the seventh minute but two minutes later Milan were unlucky not to go ahead.  Christian Panucci's headed goal was ruled out because Daniele Massaro was  judged to be interfering with play in an offside position.
Milan's enterprise finally bore fruit in the 22nd minute when Guardiola  failed to clear on the left, giving Savicevic the chance to break into the box.
