Indian police murdered and tortured hundreds of  Sikhs during the decade-long insurgency in Punjab, state-sanctioned methods  that are also used in Kashmir, human rights groups charged Wednesday.
The 103-page report by Human Rights Watch/Asia and Physicians for Human  Rights titled "Dead Silence: The Legacy of Abuses in Punjab" was released  during Indian Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao's high-profile visit to the  United States.
Rao will address a joint session of Congress Wednesday and meet with  President Bill Clinton on Thursday.
The Indian government's counter-insurgency campaign has created a police  force whose brutal methods have been sanctioned by the state as an acceptable  means of combatting political violence, the report said.
More disturbing, the report said, is that in Kashmir, "the same violations  -- disappearances, torture and extrajudicial executions -- have become  endemic. It is a legacy that will haunt India for decades to come."
In a letter to Clinton, Asia Watch executive director Sidney Jones urged  him to press Rao for human rights improvements and allow International Red  Cross prison visits, "a vital step toward ending torture and disappearances."
She enclosed the report on abuses in Punjab, adding that a similar pattern  has been occurring in Kashmir, where India has been trying to put down a  Pakistan-backed Moslem insurgency.
"We urge you to raise concerns about these abuses during the prime  minister's visit," Jones said.
The groups accused the Clinton administration of softening its criticism  of India's human rights record and asked Clinton to urge Rao to prosecute and  punish police officers responsible for murder and torture.
Strategy long advocated by Indian officials was to eliminate the Sikh  leadership in Punjab by offering police rewards for killing suspected  militants, the report said.
Torture methods included severe beatings, electric shocks, suspension by  the feet or hands, stretching the legs apart, and crushing the leg muscles  with a heavy wooden roller.
The insurgency in the northern Indian state of Punjab and the police  crackdown that ended it left more 10,000 people dead, most of them executed  while in police custody, the report said.
(ATTN EMBARGO
