International observers resumed their  patrols in the mosque massacre town of Hebron on Thursday after being put  under army curfew with the rest of the population.
Israeli troops enforced the curfew following the wounding of 17  Palestinians on Monday and the murder of two Jews in a nearby settlement on  Tuesday by Islamic fundamentalists.
"We started our patrols again at five a.m. and our movements are totally  free now," said Bjarno Sorensen, spokesman for the Temporary International  Presence in Hebron (TIPH).
Sorensen claimed some credit in ending the curfew.
The TIPH, made up of Norwegians, Danes and Italians, complained to the  army on Wednesday.
"I think we brought some pressure to bear also through our reports to our  governments back home," Sorensen said.
In Copenhagen, Danish Foreign Minister Niels Helveg Petersen voiced  concern at the "obstruction" to the TIPH mission. It is intended to improve  security for the 120,000 Palestinians in the occupied West Bank town after the  February 25 slaughter of 30 Moslems by a settler.
The TIPH spokesman admitted the curfew and shootings had underlined the  limitation of the 116-member force which deployed on May 8.
"The general impression from the first week was that things were getting  better.
"But the shooting on Monday and the killings of the Israelis led to the  curfew for a day. During that time we felt a bit helpless. We were not allowed  to leave our building," he said.
"Now people have seen what we have done and people will be able to  celebrate the feast openly this weekend." The Moslem feast of the sacrifice,  or Eid al Adha, is on Saturday.
We have known all along there is the possibility that Israel can close the  area, but people here saw our limitations for the first time."
It is the first time Israel has agreed to the deployment of an  international body in the occupied territories, but the TIPH has no police  power.
Its role is to monitor and report on events in the town in line with a PLO  demand for international protection for Palestinians.
