British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd and his  Russian counterpart Andrei Kozyrev discussed the crisis in Crimea during talks  at the weekend, the ITAR-TASS news agency reported Monday.
Tension between the authorities in Kiev and Simferopol reached a high  level Friday when deputies in the pro-Russian Crimean parliament in a move  tantamount to a declaration of independence voted to introduce a 1992  constitution which had remained in abeyance under pressure from Kiev.
The Kiev parliament retaliated with a 10-day ultimatum to Crimean deputies  to reverse the decision or face unspecified consequences.
During Sunday's meeting in the northwestern city of Murmansk, Hurd was  "particularly interested" in Russia's response to a Ukrainian letter to the  United Nations on the crisis, sources close to the meeting told the agency.
In the letter, which was also addressed to the North Atlantic Treaty  Organisation, Ukraine warned it "reserved the right," should the situation  deteriorate, to take all necessary measures to safeguard its borders, but did  not state what these would be.
Kozyrev told Hurd that Russia "had nothing against such an appeal and  believes that an appeal for a political settlement (of the crisis) from the UN  Security Council could help all the parities (concerned)," the sources added.
Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and his Ukrainian counterpart  Yefim Zviagilski were to discuss the crisis in Moscow Monday, and face-to-face  talks between Kiev and Simferopol representatives are scheduled in the Russian  capital Tuesday.
Hurd and Kozyrev also discussed Russian participation in NATO's  "Partnership for Peace" scheme, which Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev  is due to discuss with the alliance in Brussels.
Under the scheme, former Warsaw Pact states will be offered closer  military cooperation with the western alliance, but it falls short of full  membership. Moscow wants to be given recognition of its great power status in  any relationship with NATO.
The foreign ministers agreed that military and political cooperation  "should not be limited to the confines of the (Partnership for Peace) accord,"  ITAR-TASS said.
Hurd was due in Moscow Monday for talks with President Boris Yeltsin,  Chernomyrdin and lower house of parliament speaker Ivan Rybkin.
The British minister is due Tuesday to travel to Ukraine for a meeting  with President Leonid Kravchuk.
