England have made only one change to the  team that lost 21-6 to Natal to do duty against Transvaal at Ellis Park here  on Saturday.
Fullback Paul Hull comes in for David Pears, who tour ended in injury.
Captain Will Carling, who dislocated a thumb in the match against Western  Transvaal on Wednesday, was declared fit for the fourth game of the tour.
Springbok and Transvaal captain Francois Pienaar, who had been suffering  from an ankle injury, was also given the nod.
A good performance on Saturday is likely to earn Pienaar the captaincy for  the first Test against England on June 4, though number 8 Tiann Strauss is a  rival for the job.
Frustration by the English players with local referees, meanwhile, has  erupted into a fierce war of words.
Carling complained after Wednesday's match against Western Transvaal local  referees were putting their own interpretations on the laws.
"We are winning the lineouts but keep getting pulled down so it's very  hard to play a game," Carling said. "At the moment we don't quite understand  what we are being penalised for."
Coach Dick Best joined the row on Thursday. "It appears that the local  teams are allowed to win their lineouts but whenever we try to compete, we are  penalised," Best said.
"We just cannot seem to string two passes together without being blown. It  is frustrating."
Manager Jack Rowell also pitched in. "The three referees who handled the  games all had different interpretations and bungled," he said.
But South African referees' boss Piet Robbertse hit back Thursday, telling  the England players to stop whingeing and get on with the game.
"The sooner the better for them," said Robbertse. "If they start doing  some homework and adapt to local interpretations, which every touring team  must do, their own performances will improve."
The tourists are expected to call on English RFU Referees' coach Fred  Howard to help mediate in the row.
Teams:
England -- Paul Hull; Rory Underwood, Phil de Glanville, Will Carling  (capt), Tony Underwood; Rob Andrew, Dewi Morris; Jason Leonard, Brian Moore,  Victor Ubogu, Tim Rodber, Martin Johnson, Nigel Redman, Ben Clarke, Dean  Richards
Transvaal: Theo van Rensburg; Pieter Hendriks, Christiaan Scholtz, Japie  Mulder, Jaco Louw; Hennie le Roux, Johan Roux; Balie Swart, James Dalton,  Johan le Roux, Francois Pienaar (capt), Kobus Wiese, Hannes Strydom, Ian  Macdonald, Rudolph Straeuli
