Secretary of State Warren Christopher appears  to be in favor of a middle-ground approach to renewing China's Most Favored  Nation (MFN) trade status, a senior administration official said.
The official, who asked not to be named, said Christopher had briefed  President Bill Clinton on Monday on his ongoing analysis of human rights in  China and was inclined to renew the trade benefits, but with targeted  sanctions for certain goods.
Christopher must advise Clinton before June 3, the deadline for the  president to decide whether to extend MFN trading privileges to China for an  additional year.
The United States is attempting to put pressure on China to improve its  human rights record by threatening to withhold MFN status, which brings the  lowest available US tariffs on imports.
Clinton warned last year that any further renewal of MFN status would  depend on China showing "overall significant progress" in human rights issues,  and outlined seven areas in which such improvements should be observed.
Senior administration officials quoted Tuesday by The Washington Post said  that Christopher offered Clinton an accounting record that would provide the  legal argument for renewing China's trade benefits.
According to the officials, who also requested anonymity, Christopher said  that China had met two requirements: cooperation in ending the export of  prison-made goods and allowing relatives of some dissidents to leave the  country.
Although mixed results were reported in the other five areas, the  officials added, the progress described by Christopher provided narrow legal  grounds for MFN renewal.
The senior officials quoted by the daily left open the possibility that  Christopher would recommend punitive sanctions aimed at Chinese goods produced  at government-owned facilities, such as products made by China's army.
A coalition of human rights groups said Monday that China had failed to  meet criteria set by Clinton a year ago and that conditions had actually  become worse in China.
Business interests, fearing a potentially huge drop in trade, are urging  MFN be granted with no strings attached.
Those backing MFN for China include Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy who  said, "China represents a very important market for the United States  agriculture commodities, an important market that will be increasingly  important in the next decade."
"We need to be very clear that if somehow we would rescind MFN to China,  that other nations against whom we compete would just come in and fill the  vacuum," Espy said.
