Riots, fires, killings and earthquakes are  being blamed for a dramatic drop in Japanese tourists visiting California.
Latest figures released by the California tourist board show that after a  1987 high of 44 percent, Japanese tourists are expected to account for only 18  percent of holidaymakers visiting the state this year.
In a bid to stop the decline, officials have prepared a series of  advertisements to be shown on Japanese television in a bid to lure back the  tourists and their much-needed money.
Japanese tourists are by far the biggest spenders, putting an estimated  3,000 dollars each into the California economy per visit.
The situation has become so bad that businessmen in the Little Tokyo area  of Los Angeles have drooped their prices in a bid to lure back the Japanese.
The Otani hotel, which virtually relies on Japanese tourists and  businessmen for its custom, has dropped room prices from 130 dollars a night  to 99 dollars.
"Japanese tourism is down. The business is down," said the owner of one  coffee shop.
"The older ones in Japan read the newspaper and they are scared to venture  out because of the bad publicity," he added, referring to the recent murder of  two Japanese during a car hi-jacking by gang members.
"Its kind of slow. There is a lot of crime here," said another Little  Tokyo shop owner.
Ryo Okura, vice-president of the Japanese International Travel Bureau, has  no doubt that the image of a crime-ridden city is hurting the tourist trade.
"Security is very bad compared with other destinations," said Okura.  "Honeymooners try to avoid this area. Before, Los Angeles and Southern  California was very popular with them."
Out of the nearly four million Japanese tourists who come annually to the  States only 785,000 visited California in 1992, almost half of the normal  figure.
To combat the steady decline, lawmakers are proposing increasing the  300,000 dollar annual budget spent by the tourist board to woo Japanese  tourists, to one million dollars.
"Sending ten Japanese tourists to California is the equivalent of sending  one American car to Japan," said John Poimiroo, head of the California Tourist  Board, to justify the jump.
