Advancing northern troops on Sunday fired a  missile into the southern stronghold of Aden, killing four civilians and  wounding nine others, rescue workers said.
The south vowed to turn the road to Aden into a "graveyard" and defend the  independence it declared on Saturday.
President Ali Abdallah Saleh said Aden was surrounded and his troops were  heading to the port of Mukalla, 500 kilometers (300 miles) to the northeast  where his southern rival Ali Salem al-Baid has been sheltering since last week.
The missile hit a house in Aden's Khormaqsar district, causing widespread  damage and cutting electricity to the area, ambulance crews and police said.  Diplomats said the missile was a Soviet-made Totska or Luna.
On the northern front, Saleh's troops have been in full control of the  southern air base of Al-Anad, on the road to Aden, since Friday, according to  Sanaa Radio.
But exactly four years after Yemen's ill-fated unification, the south  pressed ahead with shedding its links with the north, undeterred by Saleh's  anger and accusations that independence was "an act of high treason."
On Sunday, the temporary national unity assembly announced the creation of  a five-man presidential council including Baid, ousted from his post as vice  president by Sanaa.
Talks were going on Sunday to form a government for the new Yemeni  Democratic Republic, sources in Aden said.
Saleh meanwhile has sought to drum up support for maintaining the shaky  unity between the conservative, tribal North and the former Marxist South  which were merged on May 22, 1990.
On the eastern battlefront, northern forces shot down a southern warplane  and seized 15 tanks in the Abyan region, Sanaa Radio said, adding that the  enemy suffered heavy losses.
And northern troops were "at the gates of Ataq, the capital of the oil  province of Shabwa (130 kilometers east of Aden), northern minister Abdel  Karim Al-Iriyani told the Qatari news agency.
Shabwa, in the south, produced half of unified Yemen's oil of around  300,000 barrels per day.
The south said its airplanes had launched a series of raids on northern  positions and seized 30 northern tanks in Kharaz, 130 kilometres (80 miles)  west of Aden.
The president, who has accused the south of receiving foreign military aid,  said two airplanes landed at Mukalla airport Saturday while a warship brought  in a cargo of arms to the port.
Saleh telephoned five Arab leaders late Saturday to update them on events,  including Saudi's King Fahd and Syrian President Hafez al-Assad.
But Arab states have so far steered clear of issuing a direct condemnation  of the south's independence.
Jordanian Deputy Prime Minister Said al-Tall said his country "supports  legality in Yemen and the unity of its people."
A northern statement implied that it would cut links with any country  recognising the new republic.
Any contact with Baid would be "considered an act hostile to the Yemeni  people and a flagrant and unacceptable interference in our internal affairs,"  it warned.
In statements reported by the northern-controlled official agency Saba  several political parties denounced the secession, including the pro-Iraqi  Baath and Al-Haq, a moderate Islamic group.
The north is willing to negotiate only with Yemen Socialist Party elements  opposed to independence, Sanaa Radio said, after a faction of the southern  party was reported to have condemned Baid's declaration.
The north and south have been embroiled in a civil war since May 5, after  several months of political crisis between Baid and Saleh.
