American promoter Don King on  Sunday called for a WBO super-middleweight title rematch between champion  Chris Eubank and Ray Close amid controversy over a missing scorecard.
Eubank retained his title with a split decision victory over local boxer  Close on Saturday night, but King's British partner, Frank Warren, claimed the  compilation card of the WBO co-supervisors, which keeps a running total of the  judges' scoring, could not be found after the fight.
Many observers felt King, Warren and Close's manager Barney Eastwood had  good grounds to feel aggrieved at the 118-112 verdict of Ohio judge Gene Glen,  scoring which gave Close only two rounds.
The other American judge, Clark Sammarantino, looked spot-on with 115-114  to Eubank, while Londoner Roy Francis saw Close the winner by a three round  margin. The widely differing scores have aggravated the controversy.
King said: "If it's wrong, you've got to go back in the ring again. You  can't hide behind words.
"Eubank didn't win the fight. If the scoring is arithmetically correct, is  the judgment correct? There can't be any satisfaction in Eubank's heart."
King's protest cut no ice with the British Board of Control assistant  secretary Simon Block, who insisted: "Arithmetically there is no doubt that  the scores are correct."
However, Eubank gave a strong hint of a third Close encounter later in the  year, as part of a new eight-year, ten-million pound deal satellite television  deal.
The 27-year-old champion said: "I'd give him a rematch, but next time on  the mainland. I've now been into his backyard."
Eubank said of Saturday's fight: "My ego has been dented because I didn't  do the job I thought I could do.
"From the public's perception, it was a controversial and close fight. I  expected to stop him early."
Paying tribute to the challenger, Eubank added: "He had phenomenal, almost  super-natural strength.
"At the beginning, I was punching very hard. My feet were planted, but I  was told I was two rounds behind after six. He had the heart of a lion.
"The atmosphere was nothing like I'd known in my life. I thought I'd be in  my element, but I found it hard to live up to."
Eubank had previously come desperately close to losing the title to the  Irishman in last May's draw in Glasgow.
