Italy, Norway and Mexico must have cursed their luck  when the World Cup draw paired them with the Republic of Ireland.
Although they booked their ticket for the United States only by a superior  scoring record to Denmark, the Irish have acquired a reputation as a side who  are devilishly difficult to beat under the shrewd management of Jack Charlton.
Only Spain managed that laudable feat in the 12 group three qualifiers for  the United States and Ireland's reputation can only have been enhanced by the  1-0 defeat of highly-rated Holland in a friendly in April.
As full-back Terry Phelan warned: "I don't know what teams like Germany,  Brazil and Italy will make of us out there, but they should fear us.
"We have a very strong squad and you only have to look at our record  during the past three years or so to realise that we're not a second-rate  team."
Qualification for successive World Cup finals has won the Irish  international respect, especially after their shock progress to the  quarter-finals three years ago, and there will not be a side with a better  team spirit in the USA.
The squad may be a mixture of British accents and be drawn together via  such sources as Irish parents and grandparents, but there is an unbelievable  bond between them.
Charlton boasted: "The Irish nation have taken my lads to their hearts and  justifiably so. Everybody knows about the terrific team spirit we have. I  wouldn't swap this lot for the world."
The feeling is mutual. Charlton is amazingly loyal to his players, as he  showed with his treatment of key defender Paul McGrath when he went missing  last summer, and they respond by playing out of their skins for him.
Few international managers would recall a player after they had let him  and his teammates down as badly as McGrath did, but an apology was sufficient  for the genial Geordie.
Charlton is not into the business of slagging his players off in public.  That is done behind closed doors, and it works.
They are told what to do and stick to that role, even in the method may be  vastly different to what they are used to in the English or Scottish leagues.
