The Security Council called on North Korea  Monday to allow full international inspection of its nuclear facilities but  stopped short of threatening sanctions against Pyongyang.
In a consensus statement read by Ibrahim Gambari of Nigeria, the council's  current chairman, the 15-member council called for immediate consultations  between the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and North Korea about  Pyongyang's refuelling of the Yongbyon nuclear reactor.
The council said it was "gravely concerned" by the IAEA's assessment that  if the refuelling continues at the same pace without immediate inspections,  the IAEA will not be able to determine whether the plutonium has been diverted  for nuclear weapons production.
Experts said the refueling at the Yongbyon plant was stepped up over the  weekend and could be finished by Tuesday.
The United States suspects North Korea of using its nuclear program to  produce weapons while North Korea maintains its program has only peaceful ends.
A similar statement was issued on March 31, after North Korea barred  inspectors from two of its key nuclear sites.
The council asked IAEA director Hans Blix to keep the two inspectors in  place at the plant and urged North Korea to "proceed with the discharge  operations at the five megawatt reactior in a manner which preserves the  technical possiblity of fuel measurements in accordnats with the IAEA's  requirements."
France and Britain had been pushing for a harsher stand against Pyongyang  and direct threats of economic sanctions, according to diplomats who met  Saturday and Monday at UN headquarters in New York.
But the United States, in order to get China to accept the text, agreed to  a simple statement saying that another reivew of the situation would be  conducted "if necessary" in order to achieve full implementation of the IAEA  safeguards.
China, North Korea's traditional ally, has veto power on the council and  has opposed any sanctions against Pyongyang.
Intense discussions were held among the five permanent Security Council  members -- Britain, France, China, Russia and the United States -- Saturday  and Monday, but were unable to overcome Chinese resistance to sanctions,  diplomats said.
But French and US diplomats were preparing resolutions calling for  sanctions, amove that could spark heightened tensions, since Pyongyang has  said it would consider such a move an act of war.
