Thousands of starving Somali refugees  trapped here by the Yemeni civil war were in desperate need of food, water,  shelter and medical help, as intense fighting stranded a UN food convoy in  Sanaa Saturday.
More than two weeks after the conflict erupted, the refugees in Al-Koud, a  ramshackle village some 52 kilometres (32 miles) from the southern port city  of Aden were still trapped in crossfire between the rival north and south  forces.
They told reporters Friday they had not had any food since the war broke  out on May 5. Distant shelling could be heard as they told about conditions in  the camp.
"We have no shelter, no food. We don't sleep at night because of the  shelling" said Malyoun Ahmed, a 27-year-old woman with 12 children.
"Four women gave birth here in the past two days", she added.
UNHCR officials said there were about 6,000 refugees trapped in Al-Koud,  where reporters said Friday the front line was only 17 kilometres (11 miles)  to the west.
A food convoy bound for the stricken Somalis was due to leave Sanaa on  Thursday, but had not set off because of the heavy fighting in the region.
Carlos Zaccagnini, head of the Aden bureau of the UN High Commissioner for  Refugees (UNHCR), said Saturday there would have to be a "real end to  hostilities" before they would be able to reach Al-Koud and assess the  situation, feared to be "catastrophic."
After intense shelling left hundreds of casualties, the refugees were  moved from an exposed camp on the shore to buildings about one kilometre away.  Northern Yemeni soldiers controlling the area and closing in on Aden said they  were moved 10 days ago.
Ahmed said about 500 refugees were killed and 800 wounded in the shelling.  But the UNHCR has estimated that 175 people were killed.
The wounded Somalis were taken to hospitals in Al-Bayda further north and  the capital Sanaa.
The refugees had been there since fleeing war-torn Somalia in 1992, packed  into boats which ferried them across the Gulf of Aden.
In Am-Main, a village about 110 kilometres from Al-Koud, Somali refugees  said hundreds had fled from Al-Koud village inland, but they were equally  destitute.
"We have no water, we sleep in the streets", said Moumim Mahmud Mohammad,  43, formerly the stores supervisor at Al-Koud.
He said he had walked from the camp for two days and nights to reach the  village.
"We have had no food for the past three weeks", he said, adding that the  last supplies had reached al-Koud three months ago. There were about 11,000  refugees at Al-Koud before the war, Moumim said.
Hundreds were now scattered in Am-Main and other villages, including  Al-Mudiyah and Shuqrah. He said more than 500 were in Lawdar area.
President Ali Abdallah Saleh cancelled a ceasefire Saturday and vowed that  his northern forces would capture Aden after his southern rivals declared an  independent state.
Asked whether the refugees were worse off in Yemen than they had been in  Somalia, Moumim said "The war is more serious, I don't know where to go."
The refugees were unable to move from the villages because of Yemeni  checkpoints.
"The local Yemenis are kind to us, but they have nothing. I prefer to go  back to Somalia", he said.
Meanwhile hundreds of Somali refugees besieged a UN food depot in Aden for  the first handouts in two months, with about 1,500 people receiving rations of  of basic foodstuffs.
Each person received half a sack of flour, a kilogram (one pound) of sugar  and a carton of Danish cheese to last two months.
The operation is due to continue on Wednesday for other Somali refugees in  the southern stronghold, who will also have to produce UNHCR rations cards to  qualify for the handouts.
Some 11,800 Somali refugees are registered with the UNHCR in Yemen.
