Presidential elections Sunday may deal a death blow  to the political aspirations of Antonio Navarro, former leader of the  guerrilla M-19, while reaffirming the power of Colombia's established  political parties.
Navarro, 46, had planned to take his rebel organization and build a viable  party that would break a century of domination by the Liberal and Conservative  parties in this geographically diverse nation of tropical lowlands, Andean  highlands and Caribbean and Pacific coasts.
But the former guerrilla fighter is polling at about five percent, far  behind Liberal candidate Ernesto Samper, President Cesar Gaviria's former  development minister, and Conservative Andres Pastrana, the son of a former  president. Each have been polling at about 45 percent.
The neck-and-neck race may send voting into a second round for the first  time in the country's history.
Barring a stunning upset, the presidential vote is expected to be a  spectacular defeat for the M-19, which already suffered what Navarro himself  acknowledged was a "total disaster" in March when it lost its 22 congressional  seats.
The current state of affairs is even more surprising given that Navarro  won 12.5 percent in a presidential vote held four years ago just three months  after he emerged from hiding.
Nine months later in the December 1990 election to elect a constituent  assembly, the M-19 garnered 27 percent of the seats to become a political  force to reckon with, a party that seemed capable of breaking the Liberals and  Conservatives' political monopoly.
Navarro was in his glory; polls taken in January 1991 indicated he had a  chance of becoming Colombia's next president.
But M-19 failed to live up to the hopes that a good portion of the  electorate had placed in it, and some activists turned against Navarro,  declaring him a "dictator" deaf to criticism.
He was accused of passing up opportunities to create a real opposition  party in favor of what critics called opportunistic alliances with both the  Liberals and Conservatives. Navarro even took the post of health minister  under President Cesar Gaviria.
In fact, Navarro, who became head of the M-19 after the 1990 killing of  its charismatic leader Carlos Pizarro, seems determined to put his guerrilla  past behind him, in particular the 1985 assault on the Palace of Justice.
The more than 100 dead included the Supreme Court president and 10 other  judges.
His strategy of doing whatever it takes to convince Colombians that the  M-19 has become a social democratic party appears to have failed.
But, to avoid being forgotten completely, Navarro burst into a television  studio during a debate between Pastrana and Samper on March 13. It was the  sort of guerrilla action he had sworn off in happier days.
