Five Japanese electronics giants forecast higher  global earnings after posting mixed performances in the year to March, buoyed  by strong semiconductor sales which helped to offset the strong yen, on  Thursday.
The biggest turnarounds were announced by top semiconductor manufacturer  NEC Corp. and leading computer maker Fujistu Ltd. which both managed to return  to the black after suffering steep losses in the previous year.
Leading electrical machinery maker Hitachi Ltd. and third-ranked  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. suffered modest profit declines in group pre-tax  earnings but projected recoveries this year. Second-ranked Toshiba Corp.  posted higher group earnings and said parent profits, which fell sharply, were  expected to rebound.
NEC posted consolidated pre-tax earnings of 25.1 billion yen (244 million  dollars), reversing a pre-tax loss of 37.7 billion yen a year earlier. Sales  edged up 1.8 percent to 3,580 billion yen despite reduced revenue from  computers and industrial electronic systems.
The company forecast a further improvement in worldwide earnings to 60  billion yen in the current year with sales climbing to 3,720 billion yen.
"Although it is likely the Japanese economy will begin to recover in  fiscal 1995, the severe operating environment may continue owing to the  further rise of the yen and the acceleration of structural change in the  electronics market," the company said in a statement.
Fujitsu posted a profit of 44.1 billion yen, reversing a loss of 16.2  billion yen a year earlier. But net consolidated losses widened 16 percent to  37.7 billion yen in the same period, mainly due to the cost of restructuring  its troubled computer subsidiary Amdahl Corp. in the United States.
Global sales fell 9.3 percent to 3,139 billion yen, depressed by sales of  computers and information processing systems, especially in overseas markets.
For the current year, pre-tax earnings are expected to double to 90  billion yen with sales recovering to around 3,220 billion yen. Fujitsu also  expects to return to the black on an after-tax basis with a net profit of 30  billion yen.
In the latest year, the company said, "technology advancement was  compounded by the rapid changes associated with the industry's shift toward  right-sizing open systems, networking and multimedia."
Hitachi's earnings fell three percent from a year earlier to 228 billion  yen as global sales declined two percent to 7,400 billion yen.
For the current year, however, it forecast improved earnings of 245  billion yen although sales are expected to slip to 7,380 billion yen.
Hitachi, which saw its operating profits decline four percent to 213  billion yen in the latest year, said its consumer products division suffered  an operating loss of 46 billion yen, four percent bigger than the previous  year.
Toshiba's earnings grew five percent from a year earlier to 90.2 billion  yen but sales rose less than one percent to 4,631 billion yen, depressed by  consumer products, information and communication systems, and electronic  devices.
The company offered no forecast for consolidated earnings before tax in  the current year but said net profit, which plunged 41 percent to 12.1 billion  yen in the latest year, was expected to rebound to 25 billion yen. Global  sales are meanwhile projected to climb to 4,750 billion yen.
"Although memory devices and liquid crystal displays, and personal  computers for the US market, recorded healthy sales, domestic sales of  distribution systems and colour picture tubes, and medical systems in overseas  markets, were low," the company said in a statement.
Mitsubishi Electric's group earnings fell 10 percent from a year earlier  to 71.4 billion yen while sales fell five percent to 3,105 billion yen.
For the current year, however, Mitsubishi projected improved earnings of  74 billion yen with sales edging up to 3,110 billion yen.
"While foreseeing a good semiconductor market situation in the US, as well  as steady public investment and partly favourable signs in individual  consumption, it is forecast that the yen's appreciation will continue and  capital investment by the private sector and building-related demand will  remain inactive," the company said.
