French aviation authorities seemed determined on  Friday to reject any flight plans filed by British Airways, Air UK or TAT  airline for Monday flights using Paris' Orly airport, reliable sources said  Friday.
Those companies have indicated their intention of launching service  between London and Orly on that day, even though France is opposed.
The sources noted that without an accepted flight plan, no pilot can take  off without violating international regulations and endangering his  passengers' lives.
But when asked about the matter, the French Transport Ministry - in charge  of the General Agency for Civil Aviation (DGAC), which deals with flight plans  - refused to comment on Friday except for saying that "all possible cases have  been contemplated and studied".
The British airlines, backed by their government, have insisted they are  entitled to start flights to Orly next week in the wake of a European Union  decision that France must open three routes to competition: Orly-London,  Orly-Toulouse and Orly-Marseille.
British Airways (BA) has said that "We have the rights and the slots, and  we will be starting our first London-to-Orly flights on Monday".
In London, a Civil Aviation Authority spokesman noted that the easiest way  in practice for the French to prevent BA and other airlines from serving Orly  was to reject the flight plan, which every pilot has to submit an hour before  takeoff.
But at the same time, a BA spokesman continued to maintain that "there  will be no problem" and no reason for flight plans to be filed Monday to be  turned down.
Sources close to French transport minister Bernard Bosson said Friday that  the French government did not in any way question "the principle of opening  the Orly-London route to British companies as soon as possible". But they said  it was normal for the government to reject a "fait accompli" that BA and some  other British companies were trying to put over.
A reliable source said the French government seems eager above all to  negotiate a reciprocity agreement with Britain before opening Orly to British  aircraft, as the European Commission has ordered. Air France and Air Outremer  have filed applications to use Heathrow airport in London which were rejected  on the ground that the airport is already too congested.
Until now, all flights to London from Paris have left from Roissy-Charles  de Gaulle airport, flying to four London airports: Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted  and London City Airport.
