Development aid is suffering because rich countries  are cutting back on public spending and diverting funds instead to emergency  relief, according to an international report out this week.
In the report, entitled "the reality of aid 94", some 100 non-governmental  organisations noted that most members of the Organisation of Economic  Cooperation and Development (OECD) would be cutting back on aid to developing  countries this year.
"The reality of aid in 1994 is depressing," the report said.
Only four OECD members -- Japan, which currently provides 20 percent of  development aid, Denmark, Ireland and New Zealand -- have budgeted for an  increase in aid, the report said.
This drop in funding was all the more serious as in 1992 only the  Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and Norway had met a UN target which calls for  industrialized countries to contribute 0.7 percent of their gross domestic  product (GDP) to development aid.
The report also criticized the lack of commitment by OECD countries to  fighting poverty, despite numerous declarations of intent to do so.
In 1992, donor countries contributed 60.4 billion dollars in development  aid, but only some 10 percent of this actually went to help fight poverty,  according to the report.
"DAC members (donors countries) still appear to see economic adjustment  and governance reforms as being the essentials of development. It is as if the  alleviation of poverty is a bonus which is sure to follow," the report said.
Commercial considerations also seem to weigh more and more heavily on aid  considerations, the report said.
Over the past five years, 15 billion dollars of aid per year have been  linked directly to provision by the donor country of goods and services,  thereby often providing more of a boost to the donor economy than to that of  the recipient.
Eurostep and the International Council of Welfare Agencies, which  published the report, link non-governmental aid agencies in 22 countries in  Europe, North America, Asia and the Pacific region.
