Russian director Andrei Konchalovsky said  Saturday he wanted to show ordinary Russians' struggle to come to terms with  post-Soviet capitalism in his entry for the coveted Golden Palm award at the  Cannes Film Festival.
Konchalovsky, presenting "Kurochka Riaba" (Riaba My Chicken) ahead of its  premiere here later Saturday, said the film reflected the widespread crisis  created by the switch to a market economy after 70 years of communism.
"Freedom sometimes bears unexpected fruit," he told a press conference,  describing his tale of a small village in the middle of Russia rocked by the  encroachment of capitalist values.
"Everyone thought that the end of communism, or totalitarianism was  fantastic ... the fall of the Berlin Wall and so on, it provided great hope,"  he said.
"Then suddenly it isn't working," he added.
The film, a witty mixture of gritty realism and quasi-surreal fairy tale,  focuses on the fate of Assia, a staunch party member gradually converted to  the power of money.
This is brought about first by her affection for a fellow villager who  builds himself a woodcutting factory, making lots of money and increasingly  cutting himself off from the rest of the village.
Then, in a fantastical turn of events Assia, played by Inna Churikova,  discovers a golden egg apparenty layed by her constant companion, her chicken  Riaba. The whole village soon gets to hear of the treasure, and the film takes  off from there.
It comes nearly 30 years after Konchalovsky's "Assia's Happiness," made in  1967 but kept from public screenings for nearly 20 years by the Soviet  authorities.
Konchalovsky meanwhile went to the United States where he pursued his  directing career, before returning to his home country -- at least for  film-making purposes -- in recent years.
Explaining his feelings on the society he found upon his return,  Konchalovky explained: "We are in the 15th century politically speaking ...  it's not that we are savages, that's just the way it is."
