Ten children and a Rwandan woman working for the  UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) were found hacked to death in the woman's central  Kigali home, a UN spokesman said Tuesday.
The report of the murderous Sunday assault cvame as the Geneva-based UN  High Commissioner for Refugees accused Rwandan rebel troops of torturing and  massacring civilians in the ongoing bloodbath sweeping the central African  country.
Speaking by telephone from the strife-torn capital, UN spokesman Abdul  Kabia said of the hacking: "Civilians armed with guns, grenades and machetes  entered the house and hacked the victims to death." spokesman Abdul Kabia said  by
telephone from Kigali.
The murders were reported to the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda on  Monday, and UN officials went to the scene Tuesday, Kabia said.
He said it was unclear whether the victims were from the minority Tutsi  tribe that has borne the brunt of six weeks of bloodletting in which relief  officials estimate between 200,000 and 500,000 people have been butchered.
Five of the victims were the UNICEF employee's own children, the others  children who sought refuge in her home near the Belgian school from death  squads roaming Kigali's streets, Kabia said.
In Geneva, UNHCR spokesman Rupert Colville said: "A UNHCR field officer at  the border separating Tanzania and Rwanda witnessed soldiers shooting at  Rwandan refugees fleeing across the river into Tanzania."
He added that "interviews with arrivals from several dozen places in  Rwanda" indicated that soldiers of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) "are  murdering and torturing Rwandans before throwing their bodies into the Akagara  river separating Tanzania and Rwanda."
Villagers fleeing the slaughter among the Tutsi minority who form the  backbone of the RPF and the Hutu majority said that during the past three  days, there had been "swoops into villages where Rwandans were herded into  schools and hacked to death with machetes."
Groups of villagers were bound hand and foot and dumped into the river,  Colville added.
He noted that the RPF has "denied involvement in the massacres," by said  that since the deployment of rebel troops on the main border bridge with  Tanzania on April 29, the flow of refugees dropped considerably.
"The new arrivals in Tanzania are slipping through the frontier in highly  traumatized condition, some have bullet and machete wounds," he added.
