Manchester United clinched the League and FA Cup  double here on Saturday to confirm their status as one of the greatest teams  in English history.
Two penalties from Frenchman Eric Cantona and another strike by Welshman  Mark Hughes set up a United 4-0 cup triumph against Chelsea at Wembley.
Ryan Giggs was instrumental in the first goal as he tapped the ball into  Denis Irwin's path before crashing to the ground from a tackle.
As Irwin moved forward, Newton upended the Irishman for an obvious  penalty. Cantona, England's players' player of the year, stepped forward and  fired past Chelsea keeper Dmitri Kharine in the 61st minute.
Just five minutes later, United went further ahead. Ukrainian Andrei  Kanchelskis, in one of his many speedy forays into Chelsea territory, appeared  to be challenged by Frank Sinclair shoulder to shoulder.
But referee David Elleray had no hesitation in pointing to the spot once  more, Cantona repeating a carbon-copy spot-kick into the bottom right-hand  corner.
The match became a nightmare for Sinclair in the 68th minute when his  defensive error allowed Hughes through to score yet another high-profile goal  for his club. Hughes had scored United's second goal in their 2-1 victory over  Barcelona in the 1991 European Cup Winners' Cup final.
The result was sealed by Brian McClair in the final minutes, tapping into  an open goal after Paul Ince had dribbed past the goalkeeper.
United manager Alex Ferguson became the first manager to win the league  and cup double north and south of the border. He won the Scottish league and  cup double with Aberdeen in 1984.
Ferguson dedicated the success to the late Sir Matt Busby, whose side were  tragically robbed of likely double glory in the late 50s, early 60s by the  Munich air disaster, which claimed six player's lives in 1958.
Though Manchester turned up the heat markedly in the second half, the  match had been a scrappy, haphazard affair before the break.
Denmark's Jakob Kjeldbjerg nearly stole the early limelight in this most  prestigious sporting fixture in the English calendar.
