Lebanese and Arab agriculture is threatened with  collapse if Israel continues to subsidise its produce after peace is reached  in the Middle East, Lebanese Agriculture Minister Adel Cortas said on  Wednesday.
He charged that Israel was artificially subsidising its agricultural  products to flood the market with cheap produce.
"A ferocious competition will emerge unless the structure of Israel's  heavily subsidised agriculture is changed in an era of peace and this could  lead to the collapse of Lebanese and Arab agriculture," Cortas told AFP.
He said that Arab governments must adopt a policy of protectionism in an  open-border situation which is expected to emerge in the Middle East once  peace is established between Israel and its Arab neighbours.
Measures should be taken to ban the import of Israeli products or to  impose heavy customs duties on such produce to protect Arab agriculture, he  said.
"Ideally, Lebanon, the Arab countries and Israel should adhere to the GATT  agreements which ban subsidies for the agricultural sector," Cortas said,  adding however that any changes in Israel's agricultural would mean its demise.
Cortas expected an unequal competition to emerge between Israel and  Lebanon because of "the similarity between their agricultural produce and the  artificially low-cost of Israel products."
He noted that both countries shared the same type of citrus production and  grew similar vegetables and fruit.
But unlike in Lebanon, Israeli farmers enjoyed a wide-range of government  aid, including lease-free land, free grains, insecticides and fertilizers in  addition to help in irrigating the land and exporting the produce.
"The United States is also helping to promote scientific and agricultural  research in Israel at a time when research centers in Lebanon are embryonic or  heavily damaged because of the (civil) war," Cortas said.
Tobacco, wheat and beetroot are the only products susbidised by the  Lebanese authorities, according to Cortas.
Cortas advocated a 10-year transition period during which he said Arab  states should coordinate their economic and agricultural policies to forge a  strong Middle East market.
According to official figures, agriculture represents 12 percent of  Lebanon's Gross Domestic Product. Exports of fruit and vegetable to Arab Gulf  states, Egypt and Libya stood at 18 percent of total exports in the first  quarter of 1994.
Lebanon set aside two percent of its 2.4 billion dollar budget for 1994 to  agriculture -- far short from the six percent needed to promote agriculture,  according to the director general of the agriculture ministry, Adel Shueiry.
Less than 20 percent of the Lebanon's working population is employed in  the agricultural sector, which relies heavily on foreign labour from Egypt and  Palestine with Syria topping the list with some 200,000 labourers.
Cortas acknowledged that Syrian produce was flooding the Lebanese market  but he stressed that Damascus was taking measures to stop certain products  from being sold illegally to Lebanon during high-seasons.
