Football star Ruud Gullit has  walked out on the Dutch World Cup squad and will not play in the tournament,  trainer Dick Advocaat announced here on Monday.
Advocaat said Gullit, who has only just returned to international football  after a self-imposed exile, did not give any reasons for his departure.
The news is a major blow to Holland's hopes of shining in the world  showpiece starting on June 17 -- and a major blow for the event itself, with  the dreadlocked Gullit rated as one of the world's most charismatic characters.
Gullit had only just returned to the side after quitting Holland's  qualifying campaign following a long-running row with Advocaat.
He buried the hatchet and returned to play in Friday's win over Scotland  but was substituted at half-time and later criticised the Dutch game plan.  Advocaat responded by saying he was in charge of the team and not Gullit.
The 31-year-old, who has won 64 international caps since his 1981 debut  and scored 17 goals, orignally announced his retirement from the national team  in 1992.
He then returned the following year, only to quit again after being  substituted by Advocaat during the 2-2 draw with England at Wembley.
But the news that Advocaat would make way for Johan Cruyff during the  United States finals made him change his mind -- only for Cruyff to fall out  with the Dutch football federation and turn down the job, Advocaat agreeing to  continue.
Gullit, who married his companion Christina Pensa earlier this month, had  a fine season for Italian club Sampdoria last season, scoring 15 goals, and  was re-signed by his former club AC Milan on a million-dollar contract.
European footballer of the year in 1987, he survived a series of  career-threatening knee injuries to confirm his star status at AC Milan  alongside Dutch teammates Marco Van Basten and Frank Rijkaard.
He won an Italian league title with Milan in 1988 with the side, followed  by successive European Cups in 1989 and 1990.
He also won the 1988 European championship with Holland.
