Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) leader  Mangosuthu Buthelezi -- now a minister in South Africa's new government --  Saturday urged his supporters to work for reconciliation and peace with their  political foes.
"Go out and break down the barriers that divide you from your political  opponents," he said in a speech at a rally in KwaZulu-Natal, where his party  trounced the African National Congress (ANC) in the April 26-29 election.
"Go out and spread the word of peace and reconciliation. There can be no  economic development in the region until we achieve peace," he said. "No  businessman will want to invest in this region if his life is in danger. No  investor will want to build factories if their factories are going to be  burned down."
President Nelson Mandela's ANC swept to victory in the national poll, but  lost in Buthelezi's KwaZulu-Natal powerbase. The IFP came third nationally,  after the former ruling National Party and together the three parties make up  the government of national unity that was announced on Wednesday.
In a peace-broking move, Mandela gave Buthelezi the powerful home affairs  ministry in his 27-member cabinet.
The ANC and the IFP have engaged in bloody conflict in KwaZulu-Natal,  where 10,000 people have been killed since 1990.
In his first speech as home affairs minister, Buthelezi said Saturday: "We  will have to to work at political reconciliation if we are to end up with a  national will to make democracy work for the benefit of the people."
The IFP entered the election six days before the poll after holding out in  protest at the new constitution that did not guarantee federalism and Zulu  sovereignty in KwaZulu-Natal.
At the eleventh hour, the IFP was swayed to contest the poll by a deal  committing the new government to enshrine Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini's  status in the constitution of the new province of KwaZulu-Natal, the Zulu  heartland, and to consolidate that status in the new national constitution.
Before the agreement, thrashed out between the ANC, the former government  and the IFP, the constitution planned to absorb the KwaZulu black homeland  into South Africa and offered no guarantees to the king.
Buthelezi told his supporters it was not going to be easy serving in a  government of national unity made up largely of his erstwhile enemies, but  said he had assured Mandela he would do his best.
"It is not going to be at all easy ... as it is known that the politics of  the ruling party, the ANC, differ in many respects from those of the IFP," he  said, "but I have accepted to serve in that capacity (as a member of the  government) in good faith as long as this will be possible."
"I have, while reserving my position, assured President Mandela of my  cooperation," he said.
He vowed he would continue pushing for his federalist dream, saying it was  the only system of government that would finally rectify the imbalances of  apartheid.
"Soon the IFP will continue our negotiations with the ANC to achieve  federalism," he said. "We are going to be seeking the help of the  international community to resolve the issue once and for all."
"As the constitution now stands, it does not give us the power to rule  this region the way we think best," he said. "Without these powers we are  unable to rule this region effectively."
