Northern Yemeni forces said Friday they controlled  the strategic areas of Lahij and Abyan as well as the oil-rich province of  Shabwa and the key military base at Al-Anad, a spokesman said here.
Abyan and Shabwa lie to the east of the southern stronghold of Aden, with  Al-Anad and Lahij guarding the city's northern approaches.
He also denied to the official agency SABA that fighters from other Arab  countries were fighting alongside troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh.
The south earlier claimed advances on the battlefield as the UN Security  Council sought ways of brokering a ceasefire in Yemen's civil war despite the  north's objections.
A southern military commander Colonel Saif Gebran Ahmad said from the  abandoned village of Shakaa close to Al-Anad that northern forces were "unable  to advance."
He said: "They fled after suffering heavy losses, leaving behind dozens of  dead and wounded."
Fighting has centred on the key base since the outbreak of the war on May  5, prompting claim and counter-claim from the two sides.
Correspondents who approached the northern front saw that southern troops  had reinforced their positions particularly with tanks, 130mm canons and  multiple rocket-launchers.
Southern troops said in a statement published in Aden that they had seized  the initiative and were in "complete control of the northern front stretching  from Al-Anad to Rahida passing through Kirsh."
Earlier a southern spokesman said the southern navy and warplanes went  into action on the eastern front to beat back the troops loyal to Saleh. A  northern helicopter was shot down.
But in Sanaa a northern spokesman said Al-Anad, 60 kilometres (36 miles)   north of Aden, was under northern control despite the south's denials.
Southern troops also said they had intercepted a surface-to-surface  missile fired on Aden late Thursday, and the debris fell on a farm 26  kilometres (16 miles) north of the city.
Northern troops fired two missiles on Aden at dawn Thursday wounding 12  civilians, according to a southern toll.
Saleh has pledged to take the port city "at any cost" in a bid to smash the  south which has declared itself the independent Yemen Democratic Republic  under the leadership of Saleh's rival Ali Salem al-Baid.
Fighting has been raging outside of Aden since civil war broke out,  rupturing a four-year uneasy union between the former conservative, tribal  North Yemen and Marxist South Yemen.
Baid has fled the city seeking refuge in his birthplace Mukalla, 600  kilometres (372 miles) away.
Meanwhile the north also denounced as "lies victories claimed by the  secessionists" which he said were aimed at "camouflaging the resounding  defeats inflicted on the rebels."
He also said allegations that other Arab nationals were fighting with the  northern troops were "spread by southern leaders (...) to incite Arab  countries into getting involved in Yemen's internal affairs."
Meanwhile Syrian President Hafez al-Assad called Friday for an end to the  fighting saying only dialogue could solve the differences.
He was speaking after a meeting with the south's appointed prime minister  Haidar Abu Bakr al-Attas, and said the current fighting "was not in the  interests of either the Yemeni people or the Arab nation."
