US Secretary of State Warren Christopher kept  his latest peace mission alive Tuesday, saying he was returning to Syria  following talks in Israel in the shadow of the murder of two settlers by  Islamic gunmen.
"I am going back to Damascus for further discussions to try find a common  basis between the parties," Christopher told reporters after meeting Prime  Minister Yitzhak Rabin.
"I'll be stopping in Damascus on my way back to the United States," he  said.
Christopher said he had Rabin's "encouragement" to return to Damascus  where he spent Sunday and Monday in talks with President Hafez al-Assad and  Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara.
The Israeli premier said: "If the secretary of state has decided to return  this week to Syria to pursue the negotiations then there is perhaps a glimmer  of hope."
"We have to extract everything we can from this opportunity. I believe  Christopher will find a joint basis for dialogue."
Officials said Christopher was expected to go to Syria on Wednesday  following up Israel's peace package -- a phased withdrawal from the Golan  Heights linked to security arrangements in return for total peace.
But it was unclear if he would fly first to Egypt or to Syria. In Cairo,  the foreign ministry said the secretary would make a stop-off there on  Wednesday for talks on the peace process.
Christopher said: "We had a good and productive discussion here.
"We are at an early stage. The problems are very difficult each specific  issue has a number of difficult aspects to it." But he refused to elaborate.
He stressed that the indirect talks he was conducting had reached a  "serious and substantive level that are more fundamental than the ones that  have taken place before.
He added: "I have encouraged strongly direct negotiations between the  parties."
Rabin took up that theme saying he hoped for a resumption of direct  dialogue, but admitted, "There a lot of problems, we are at the beginning,  still a long way to go."
He praised the secretary's efforts "to facilitate a real breakthrough".
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres spoke of "room for manoeuvre" with Syria.
Israel's ambassador to Washington, Itamar Rabinovitch, told state radio:      "There are signs they want to make progress but there are no manifest  expressions of the way in which they intend to do so.
The bilateral negotiations in Washington have not been held since before the  February 25 Hebron mosque massacre.
Israel demands a prior Syrian commitment for total peace before  negotiating the size of any withdrawal from the Golan Heights. Syria demands  that Israel first commit itself to quit all the strategic plateau before  talking about the type of peace.
Meanwhile Palestinian fundamentalists shot dead a settler and his  mother-in-law and seriously wounded her daughter in an ambush south of the  West Bank town of Hebron.
Ezzedin al Kassam, the armed wing of the Islamic Resistance Movement  HAMAS, claimed responsiblity for the killing.
Gunmen raked a passing car with automatic weapons close to Haggai  settlement in the first killing of Israelis since the May 4 accord to  implement self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho.
Israel's Deputy Defence Minister Motta Gur said "terrorists" wanted "to  sabotage the peace process ... but in the end they will have no choice but to  negotiate with us."
Earlier in the day Christopher was all smiles as he pointed to the fruits  of the peace process on a highly-symbolic visit of the first self-rule enclave  of Jericho, under the protection of Palestinian police.
He met a delegation led by the PLO's Faisal Husseini, who will sit on the  self-governing authority for the Gaza Strip and Jericho, at the new police  headquarters.
"It's a tremendous opportunity to come here where a declaration of  principles has been translated into practice," he said as a boy scout band  struck up.
"I want to tell our Palestinian friends that they are not alone in this  new endeavour.
"The United States and the international community will stand with them as  they make this historic transition," Christopher said.
