A failed gun attack Monday on former premier  Morihiro Hosokawa was apparently the latest in a series of armed incidents by  far-right fanatics bitter at the retreat from Japan's militant nationalistic  past.
Police on Tuesday raided the offices of a little-known rightwing group,  Shokonjuku, after a purported faction member, Masakatsu Nozoe, 52, fired a gun  at Hosokawa in a hotel lobby.
The bullet harmlessly struck the ceiling -- but its echo resounded  throughout Japanese politics, triggering an alarmed condemnation of the  assault from Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata, as well as editorials worrying that  the embers of nationalism may still be burning fiercely.
Hosokawa, who quit last month after being embroiled in allegations of  financial misdoing, became a special target for nationalist wrath last year  after he apologised for Japan's bloody occupation of China and the "war of  aggression" that it then launched around Asia in World War II.
It was the 101st known act of extreme-right terrorism in the past 10  years. In 28 incidents -- four of them since the start of the year, a firearm  has been used.
The last assassination bid against a leading political figure was in March  1992, targeting Shin Kanemaru, a baron in the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP).  His attacker, a member of the Yukoku Seiwa group, accused him of trying to  stitch up a secret deal with North Korea.
Only a very tiny minority of rightists appear willing to turn to acts of  violence against those whom they accuse of crumpling to foreign pressure or  meekly apologising for Japan's war record.
In central Tokyo, the police set a firm but discreet watch for nationalist  fanatics, who often cruise around the city in black or grey buses and trucks  decked out with Japanese flags, blasting out slogans and military songs.
Police spotters, deployed aboard jeeps, keep an eye open for the  demonstrators, alerting guards so that they can block off access to ministries  and parliament, as well as the street leading to the Russian embassy if need  be.
It is a well-known game of cat-and-mouse involving just a handful of  activists.
But, by playing on the nostalgia for an era of nationalistic glory and  military victory, the radicals also reflect, albeit in an extreme form, the  gut feeling of many a Japanese salaryman.
A well-known academic, Shoichi Kobayashi, recalled in a commentary in the  Japan Times Tuesday controversial remarks made by Hata's short-lived justice  minister, Shigeto Nagano.
Nagano, a former officer in the imperial army who became chief of staff  after World War, denied the notorious Rape of Nanjing, when Japanese troops  seized the Chinese city and slaughtered countless civilians. His protests  ignited sharp protests from several Asian countries and he resigned.
"The Nagano statement betrayed a disturbing reality, that is, a large  reservoir of nationalist sentiment exists in Japan," Kobayashi said. "In other  words, many Japanese are sympathetic to what Nagano said."
He called on the country to take "an honest look at history," but said the  government, too, had to play its part.
In official language, he said, the government uses the word "shusen,"  meaning "the end of the war," instead of "haisen" ("defeat in the war"). US  troops deployed in Japan after 1945 are also termed "shinchugun," or  "stationed forces," rather than the humbling "senryogun," or "occupation  forces."
Such boldness may be out of place for the Hata government, which last week  scrapped a stop in Pearl Harbor that had been written into the schedule for  the June 10-26 imperial tour of the United States.
Rightists feared that Emperor Akihito, paying homage at the site of the  Japanese sneak attack that brought America into World War II, would be forced  to make a humiliating public apology.
