Crimea, whose parliament voted Friday to reinstate a  separatist 1992 constitution, has a history checkered by invasion and  occupation.
Occupied by Tatars in 1239, Crimea was conquered by Ottoman Turks in 1475  and retaken by Russia in 1783.
Under communist rule following the Russian Revolution, Crimea was  transferred to the Ukraine from Russia in 1954 by then Soviet leader Nikita  Khrushchev.
In the independence referendum of December 1991, only 54 percent of  Crimeans voted in favour of Ukrainian statehood compared to 90.3 percent of  voters in the rest of Ukraine.
It became an autonomous republic in 1991 following independence.
In April 1992, Ukraine granted greater autonomy to Crimea, giving the  region its own parliament and constitution. In May of that year, the Crimean  parliament adopted a constitution that amounted to a declaration of  independence from Ukraine, but was forced to back down in face of sanctions  from Kiev.
Crimea has been moving towards closer ties with Moscow since the January  election of Russian nationalist Yuri Meshkov to the presidency.
Meshkov in March defied Ukraine by holding a referendum on the peninsula  that won ovewhelming backing for closer ties with Russia.
Crimea is a peninsula extending southwards into the Black Sea with an  surface area of 25,881 square kilometres (10,352 square miles). The capital is  Simferopol.
Crimea's population of 2.5 million is 65 percent Russian, 20 percent  Ukrainian and 10 percent Tatar. The remaining five percent is made up of  various other minorities.
An agricultural and wine-producing region with rich tobacco plantations,  Crimea is a popular tourist region because of its subtropical climate and  numerous seaside resorts, the most famous of which is Yalta.
The Crimean port of Sevastopol is home to the disputed Black Sea Fleet,  whose commander warned Friday that the fleet "would not remain on the  sidelines of the process that is developing" and called on both sides to seek  a political settlement.
