The first of five state bank executives accused of  corruption over a 430 million dollar credit fraud went on trial in Jakarta on  Monday facing a life jail term if found guilty.
South Jakarta court prosecutor Mohamad Yamin said Maman Suparman, a  48-year-old former deputy branch director of the Indonesian Development Bank  (Bapindo), unlawfully converted an irrevocable letter of credit.
The conversion, done without the knowledge of the bank management and  board, was for ethnic Chinese businessman Eddy Tansil. The former tycoon is on  trial separately. The state is said to have suffered losses of 175 million  dollars.
An irrevocable letter of credit normally becomes payable when goods have  been supplied. But the money can be drawn in certain circumstances before  goods have been delivered.
Between 1989 and 1991, Tansil sought and obtained 430 million dollars in  credit from Bapindo for the construction of chemical facilities by his Golden  Key Group, the court heard. The money was never paid back.
The prosecutor also charged that Suparman, deputy director of Bapindo  branches in Bandung, Surabaya and Jakarta, received bribes from clients,  including Eddy Tansil, totalling 562 million rupiah (261,152 dollars).
It took the prosecutor two hours to read a 36-page accusation to the  heavily guarded court room to a panel of judges headed by Sujatman. Hundreds  of people followed the trial through loudspeakers outside the building.
The trial was adjourned until Thursday to hear the defence reply to the  charges from Suparman's lawyer Denny Kailimang.
Kailimang also asked the judge to release the defendant on bail.
Despite a letter of objection from Kailimang, the attorney general office,  which arrested Suparman in February, has insisted on detaining Suparman,  saying he might lose evidence, disappear or repeat the wrongdoings.
Kailimang said all evidence had been confiscated by the court and that  Suparman could not go abroad as he was on an immigration blacklist. A  conditional release would help prepare a better defence, the lawyer said.
The other four suspects slated for trial were all top Bapindo executives,  accused of issuing credit to Tansil despite insufficient colateral and without  carrying out proper checks.
