Heavily armed elite army troops and police  officers fanned out in the Dominican capital Tuesday to deter unrest amid  opposition charges that Monday's presidential vote was marred by fraud.
Leading opposition candidate Jose Francisco Pena Gomez charged fraud  Tuesday and demanded a partial annulment of the vote returns as incumbent  President Joaquin Balaguer took a solid first-place lead.
Former president Juan Bosch, 81, of the leftist Dominican Liberation  Party, was in third place with 13.1 percent of the vote, according to the  election board. He too alleged the elections were anything but fair.
"Fraud is the normal thing in the Dominican Republic, in the current  situation," Bosch charged Tuesday, adding "these are not really legitimate  elections."
And in a sign of the sharply rising tensions, three truckloads of heavily  armed police were seen near Pena Gomez's campaign headquarters here even as he  addressed a news conference.
With more than 46 percent of the vote counted, the Central Election Board  said Balaguer, who is seeking a seventh term in office, received 43.40 percent  to 40.47 percent for Pena Gomez, who aspires to be the country's first black  president. Final returns were expected by Wednesday.
The capital came to a virtual standstill. As Dominicans listened for  reports on the election returns, police and army troops patrolled the streets  of the city, and elite troops took up posts outside government buildings  including the national electoral board.
Traffic was light in downtown Santo Domingo and shops and businesses,  including multinational companies like IBM, were closed. Only banks remained  open.
In Santiago, the country's second largest city, soldiers and police were  searching cars at strategic checkpoints around the city.
Accusing the election board of engaging in a "scandalous fraud," Pena  Gomez, candidate of the Dominican Revolutionary Party, demanded that the  results be partially annulled.
The charges were potentially explosive. Though the voting went without  incident, 30 people were killed in election-related violence during the  campaign.
Pena Gomez said 200,000 opposition supporters were unable to vote after  their names had been stricken from voting lists by the election board and  replaced with fictitious names.
"These are very serious acts and the elections should be repeated in those  cities and provinces where these serious dislocations occurred," he said  without saying if he would urge supporters to protest the alleged fraud.  "Nobody knows what will happen here."
Balaguer has not responded directly to the fraud allegations, but said  Monday night that he did not think fraud was possible. "Everyone will be  satisfied with the way the process has been carried out," he said.
The election board responded late in the day to PRD complaints that its  supporters were being turned away at the polls even though they had legal  identity documents.
At the last minute, the board decided to keep the polls open an extra  three hours and allow voters with proper identity papers to cast ballots even  if their names did not appear on voter lists.
But Pena Gomez said that by the time the election board acted, it was too  late as many voters had given up and gone home.
He alleged that the fraud was centered in the provinces and in particular  around some 20 sugar mills, where tens of thousands of Dominicans, many of  them black, work.
He also charged that the vote count in the capital had been suspended at  the instigation of Balaguer's followers "because they know that they are  losing here." About 30 percent of the electorate is in Santo Domingo.
And, he said, unidentified assailants attacked several of his party's  leaders in the rural community of Elias Pina, 300 kilometers (186 miles) from  the capital, in a failed assassination attempt.
Throughout Monday, people had massed at voting stations, forming long  lines to elect a new president, vice president, 30 senators, 120 deputies and  107 mayors. An estimated 3.3 million Dominicans were eligible to vote.
Fiercely contested, the elections pitted candidates who are a study in  contrast.
Blind and 87 years old, Balaguer is the grand old man of Dominican  politics, an unprepossessing figure who first rose to the presidency in 1960  under dictator Rafael Trujillo and went on to recapture it five more times.
Pena Gomez, 57, is fiery orator and energetic campaigner who has attacked  the government for wasteful spending on public works while neglecting public  health and other services.
Pre-election polls showed him with a narrow lead over Balaguer. Two other  candidates from minor parties also ran.
