The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  (ANZ) announced Wednesday a surge in net profits for the six months to March  31, declaring it had shed unprofitable assets and was ready to forge ahead in  a competitive market.
The bank reported net profits for the half year of 363.8 million  Australian dollars (260 million US) compared with 72.1 million dollars in the  previous corresponding period.
Charges to profit for bad and doubtful debts fell to 226.2 million dollars  from 377.9 million dollars previously, it said.
"Across the group there has been no let up from last year's focus on  improving asset quality," said ANZ chairman John Gough.
The level of non-accrual loans was cut to 1.528 billion dollars in March  1994 from 2.727 billion dollars a year earlier, largely due to strong asset  sales totalling 800 million dollars in the half year.
"The work of the past 18 months has clearly put the asset quality problems  of recent years behind us," Gough said in a statement.
"ANZ is now well-positioned to develop its business in the  keenly-competitive financial services sector."
Gough said the bank's Australian division reported profit growth as  competitive pressures on margins were offset by improvements in asset quality,  but earnings in New Zealand were slightly lower.
"Intense competitive pressures also squeezed margins in New Zealand, more  than offsetting the savings achieved in operating expenses and reduced  provisioning for bad debts," Gough said.
ANZ's international division reported improved interim profits, he said.
"The established franchises in South Asia, the Middle East and the Asia  Pacific region have continued their strong performance while the development  of the new banking operations in Vietnam and China are proceeding to plan.
"The PT ANZ Panin bank joint venture in Indonesia has operated profitably  since our purchase last November," Gough said.
ANZ announced it would pay an unfranked interim dividend of 11 cents a  share, up from 10 cents a year previously.
However, investors on the Australian Stock Exchange reacted unfavourably,  marking down ANZ shares in late trade to 4.46 dollars each, 20 cents below  Tuesday's closing level.
National Australia Bank announced a 71 percent rise in interim net earnings  to 868.8 million dollars on May 19.
On the same day, Westpac Banking Corp. reported an interim net profit of  320.9 million dollars -- a 525.5-million-dollar turnaround on the previous  corresponding period.
