The United States denied Thursday that the North  Atlantic Treaty Organisation was offering Russia a special relationship beyond  the Partnership for Peace links offered to other former Soviet bloc nations.
A US official said NATO was in favour of deeper dialogue with Moscow but  added: "This will not be NATO and Russia ganging up on everyone else. The idea  of a special or strategic relationship beyond dialogue is not on offer."
He was reacting to reports that NATO ambassadors had agreed here Wednesday  to endorse Russian requests for special links outside a "partnership for  peace" of military cooperation with countries of the former Soviet bloc.
The issue is delicate because Russia has been insisting on a special  relationship with NATO -- and involvement in European security decision-making  -- because of its big power status.
But the United States and other NATO countries are trying at the same time  to reassure Moscow's former satellite countries in eastern Europe that they  will not fall under the shadow of a NATO-Moscow axis.
"NATO is not in the business of establishing a condominium with Russia,"  the US official said. "Condominium" is a political term meaning a division of  power and influence.
Russian involvement in the partnership for peace programme, launched by  NATO in January, is expected to be high on the agenda for talks during the  visit here next Tuesday of Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev.
But officials are worried that he will expect more special treatment for  Russia than the alliance is ready to give.
Russia delayed joining the programme in April in protest against NATO  bombing threats in Bosnia-Hercegovina. Grachev subsequently expressed doubt  about Russian membership of the partnership.
But NATO officials and diplomats have stressed that Russia's best way to  deepen its security dialogue with the West is through the partnership.
NATO ambassadors intended at their Wednesday meeting to signal that, if  the Russians joined the partnership, they could bank on being accorded a  special dialogue outside the partnership, a NATO official said Thursday.
The US official warned that "dialogue with Russia, which we hope will be  deep, cannot be seen as totally distinct from the partnership."
The Russians have recently stepped up their demands to be included in  NATO's deliberations on Europe, particularly on ex-Yugoslavia.
Sixteen countries of the old Soviet bloc have so far joined the  partnership but Russia has held back on the grounds that it wants more than  the programme offers -- particularly involvement in European security  decision-making.
Partnership for Peace offers a range of options for military cooperation  including joint military exercises and peace-keeping operations.
The programme was designed as a way to meet halfway the requests from  eastern European states to join NATO as full members enjoying security  guarantees -- a prospect which alarmed Russia.
But Russian membership is considered essential to avoid any perception in  Moscow that its former satellites are ganging up in NATO against Russia.
