South Korean President Kim Young-Sam leaves for a  state visit to Russia Wednesday seeking assurances on Moscow's role should the  North Korean nuclear standoff deteriorate.
The security situation and Moscow's new interpretation of the mutual  defence treaty with Pyongyang it inherited from the former Soviet Union will  be high on the agenda of the four-day visit, a senior government official said  Monday.
"There will be discussions on what the Russians will do in the case of  (UN) sanctions," the official said, speaking shortly after Kim had chaired a  two-hour meeting of top aides on the nuclear standoff.
"We think Russia will cooperate and support our position," he said, adding  that it was "a sensitive and appropriate time for bilateral consultations now  that the possibility of sanctions is increasing."
Kim has long said the trip to Moscow, which has backed calls for North  Korea to comply with nuclear transparency, completes "the balance" of South  Korea's ties with all four powers who interests intersect here -- the United  States, China, Russia and Japan.
And on Monday he made it clear he had no intention of being deterred by  new worries over North Korea's refusal to allow international inspectors check  if atomic fuel had been diverted from the Yongbyon plant for nuclear weapons  production.
"He asked the people to have confidence and trust while he is away, and  assured them that his government is prepared for all contingencies," a  presidential staff member quoted him as saying.
Russian ambassador George Kunadze was one of four envoys summoned to  consultations here Monday with Foreign Minister Han Sung-Joo over the new  developments.
It was Han who in April travelled to Moscow with the message that Seoul  did not favor -- at least at this stage -- the eight-party conference proposed  by Russia to try to help find a way out of the nuclear standoff.
Officials said Kim was likely to repeat Seoul's position that a conference  involving the two Koreas, the four regional powers, the United Nations and the  International Atomic Energy Agency, would only confuse the issue -- at least  at this stage.
Seoul has been reassured by Kunadze's statements that the Soviet-North  Korean Mutual Defence Treaty carries no automatic engagement clause, the  officials said. The ambassador also said any Russian involvement would be  limited to "non-provocative cases," and decisions taken with respect to the UN  charter.
Kim will also ask for reassurances that Russia has continued its  suspension of technical help to Pyongyang's nuclear power program. That was  provided under a 1985 agreement, suspended by Moscow in March 1993 when North  Korea threatened to pull out of the Nuclear Non-Prolifertion Treaty.
The forging of full diplomatic ties in 1990 between Seoul and Moscow --  which had with China backed North Korea's invasion of the South in 1950 -- has  been crucial to international concensus in the standoff with North Korea.
But diplomats here say Seoul has been "watching" unconfirmed indications  of possible new Russian sales of weapons spare parts to the North, apparently  in an effort to gain leverage with Pyongyang.
Moscow has promised to hand over during the visit the former Soviet  Union's documents on the Korean War, a gesture that government officials say  will be a "highlight" of the trip.
