Safety and Security Minister Sydney Mufamadi on  Wednesday announced sweeping changes to transform South Africa's old apartheid  police into a public-orientated "user-friendly" force.
The new police would fit into the country's current philosophy of  "forgiving the past without forgetting it", he told a media briefing.
Mufamadi announced the creation of three bodies to assist in setting up a  system of "policing of the community by the commuity and for the community."
He said an eight-member "interim advisory team on police amalgamation and  restructuring" will work on integrating the old South Africa's 11 policing  agencies -- the 115,000-strong national force and the 26,000 officers from the  10 now-defunct black homelands -- into a single new body christened the South  African Police Service.
The two other bodies would be a committee of ministers, comprising himself  and police ministers of the country's nine new provinces, and the other an  "interim board of police commissioners".
Mufamadi said more blacks must be brought into the top structure of the  police force, but added: "Officers of other races should not feel threatened  -- there will be no reverse discrimination."
He said much of the problems of the old police force, feared and  distrusted by the majority black community arose from "problems due to a  militaristic culture."
"It is necessary to get rid of that culture," he said, adding that he  would do away with the current military rank system and replace it with a  different system based on merit.
He pledged "transparency" in all police activities and announced a  four-item list of priorities:
-- the integration of the South African Police Service,
-- the creation of a national crime prevention strategy,
-- the restructuring of the force at national and provincial levels,
-- and the forces' demilitarisation and professionalisation.
"The leadership of the police must be representative of the population in  South Africa," Mufamadi said.
"The process of change may take several months," he added.
