US Secretary of State Warren Christopher met  Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin here Monday after arriving from Syria with  reactions to Israel's peace package for the Golan, state radio reported.
Plans for a formal session at the defence ministry in Tel Aviv were  cancelled but the two men then decided to talk at Rabin's official residence  in Jerusalem.
No details emerged from the late meeting.
"Yes, there are (Syrian) reactions to proposals that are going back and  forth," the secretary told reporters on his flight to Tel Aviv after meetings  in Damascus with President Hafez al-Assad and Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara.
The visit to Syria came just two weeks after Christopher took Israel's  latest peace package to Assad -- a phased withdrawal, linked to security  arrangements on the strategic Golan captured in the 1967 Middle East war, in  return for total peace.
The secretary said it had been "an especially unpredictable day."
He explained a prolonged stay in Damascus by saying he had needed to  clarify "a couple of things" before flying to Israel and so asked to see Shara.
"Each element is scrutinized with very great care," the secretary said.  The two sides were "exchanging ideas and probing each other on very early  aspects but very important aspects."
"We are at the beginning of a very serious process," said a US official  who refused to be named.
Israel and Syria were "not on the brink of a breakthrough," the official  said, adding that there was "still a lot of work to do."
"But they are clearly seriously engaged in this process," he said.
The official said Assad still insisted on total Israeli withdrawal from  the Golan, but noted that the Syrian press had been "more positive" in the  last two days.
The official Syrian press called for a rapid Israeli withdrawal from the  plateau, urging an "acceptable and reasonable" pullout timetable.
Christopher was set to have talks with Rabin and Foreign Minister Shimon  Peres on Tuesday and also visit the Palestinian self-rule enclave of Jericho  on the West Bank.
