Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad  vowed Wednesday that he would not abolish a law allowing indefinite detention  without trial, although he said some changes would be made to the legislation.
"If we lift up the lid, there might be a recurrence of undesirable  incidents," Bernama news agency quoted Mahathir as saying as the opposition  pressed for abolishing the law.
"At present, a person will not resort to anything undesirable knowing that  the Internal Security Act (ISA) is around, but when it is no more he may just  do it," said Mahathir, who is also home minister.
Mahathir said, however, that the period under which a person could be  detained under the ISA might be reviewed as part of study to be made by the  home ministry because of the current "peaceful climate in the country."
Under the law, police can hold a person they consider a security risk for  up to 60 days before having to send a report on their investigations to the  home ministry, officials said.
The ministry can then either release the detainees or order his continued  detention for up to two years, renewable indefinitely.
ISA detainees were held incommunicado during the initial 60 days of  detention, the officials said.
Karpal Singh, the deputy chairman of Malaysia's largest opposition party,  the Democratic Action Party (DAP), said the ISA had brought "international  shame" to Malaysia and should be repealed immediately.
"In 1960, the ISA was passed by parliament to combat communist subversive  elements. The (outlawed) Communist Party of Malaya surrendered formally in  December 1989. I cannot see how the government can justify the continued  existence of the ISA," Singh said.
Malaysia's biggest crackdown under the ISA took place in 1987 when 106  opposition politicians, religious activists and other government critics were  arrested for allegedly inflaming racial sensitivities.
As of the end of last year, the government was holding 52 people under the  legislation.
Fourteen of them were former communist insurgents while more than 30  others were being held for falsifying passports, identity cards and other  government documents, officials said.
