Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin began a  four-day official visit here Thursday aimed at resolving bilateral trade  problems and expanding economic cooperation between the giant neighbours.
The visit, the first by a Russian premier since the collapse of the Soviet  Union in 1991, is expected to culminate in the signing of six or seven  agreements on economic and trade cooperation.
"Russia and China are traditionally friendly neighbours," Chernomyrdin  said on arrival at Beijing's international airport.
"The two countries should maintain and further enhance their normal and  friendly relations," he added.
The premier went sightseeing in the afternoon, touring the Great Wall and  Forbidden City, before attending an official welcoming ceremony at the Great  Hall of the People hosted by his Chinese counterpart Li Peng.
Chernomyrdin and Li then embarked on a formal round of talks, which they  will resume Friday morning.
A meeting is also scheduled with Chinese President and Communist Party  chief Jiang Zemin.
Chernomyrdin's visit is the culmination of a series of recent diplomatic  exchanges aimed at furthering a process of detente begun in 1989 when former  Russian president Michael Gorbachev's visit ended a three-decade ideological  rift between Moscow and Beijing.
The prime minister's trip follows a recent visit here by a Russian  parliamentary delegation and coincides with the three-day second session of  the Sino-Russian Joint Commission on Economic, Trade and Technical Cooperation  which began Wednesday.
According to Russian diplomats here, Moscow hopes the visit will help iron  out practical problems hindering the development of trade and cooperation,  including the need to improve transport links and to shift from barter trade  -- currently accounting for some 70 percent of transactions -- to cash  exchanges.     Trade volume jumped some 31 percent last year to 7.7 billion  dollars, with border exchanges alone accounting for 2.5 billion dollars.  However, volume in the first quarter of 1994 fell some 40 percent according to  official estimates, while other figures put the drop as high as 70 percent.
China's Economic Information newspaper recently blamed the fall on tariff  increases, red tape, poor quality products, rising Chinese export costs  following January's currency unification and Russia's move to stem the flood  of Chinese crossing the border by imposing visa restrictions this year.
Some 2.5 million people crossed the border in both directions last year  and Moscow has expressed concerns over some Chinese who, it says, have set up  residence on the Russian side of the 4,000 kilometer (2,500-mile) common  border.
The Russian premier, who will be accompanied by representatives from  nearly all the country's ministries and state committees, is also expected to  discuss new areas of cooperation in his talks with Chinese leaders.
Moscow has repeatedly expressed interest in participating in China's  mammoth Three Gorges hydroelectric project on the Yangtze River.
After two days in Beijing, Chernomyrdin will fly to China's financial  centre Shanghai, followed by a brief tour of the northeastern city of Dalian.
