Russia failed to send delegates to a bilateral  economic meeting here this week, forcing South Korea to cancel the talks which  were to have focussed on the agenda of next month's Seoul-Moscow summit,  officials said Friday.
Instead, Russia suggested an unofficial meeting in Moscow a day before  South Korean President Kim Young-Sam's state visit, scheduled to start June 1,  foreign ministry officials here said.
The two-day economic meeting was to have begun in Seoul Friday, but Moscow  sent a telegram on Thursday saying its delegation could not come for domestic  reasons.
The Russian move was seen here as a diplomatic discourtesy, and South  Korean officials reacted negatively to what they called Moscow's "unilateral"  rescheduling of the meeting.
"We have yet to make a formal reply, but our response so far has been  unfavorable," a foreign ministry spokesman told AFP.
As a result, he said, issues on economic cooperation to be discussed  between Kim and Russian President Boris Yeltsin would have to be addressed  through diplomatic channels.
Alexander Shokhin, deputy chairman of the government of the Russian  Federation who also serves as economic minister, was to have led the Russian  delegation to the Seoul meeting.
South Korea had put great emphasis on a meeting of top economic  administrators that would have taken up key economic issues such as South  Korea's participation in Russian construction projects and the building of a  South Korean trade center in Moscow.
The trade center has been linked to Russia's overdue payment of 387.5  million dollars in principal and interest out of South Korea's 1.47 billion  dollars in loans.
The loan was part of a three-billion-dollar aid package promised by South  Korea in 1990 and suspended later because of Russia's repayment difficulties.
In addition to the debt, Russia's overdue payment for South Korean  commodity exports has been estimated at seven million dollars, and Seoul has  offered to consider letting the cash-strapped Russian government pay in  resources.
South Korea wants to tap Russia's advanced technology in aircraft  manufacturing, energy and other fields despite the debt Moscow owes.
