The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation is groping  for ways of meeting Russia's demands for privileged treatment with the western  alliance, diplomats said after a meeting of NATO ambassadors here Wednesday.
They said the envoys acknowledged that Russia's size and muscle merited  involvement in European security beyond a "partnership for peace" programme of  military cooperation between NATO and countries of the former Soviet empire.
But one diplomat ruled out any formal NATO agreement with Russia, and said  formal definition of the relationship was a long way off.
"The Russians like things nailed down. We say that cannot be. Anything  else (beyond the partnership programme) remains to be defined and will not be  nailed down in three weeks," he said.
The diplomats said US Ambassador Robert Hunter had expressed the  "conundrum" that, while Russia merited special attention, Moscow could not be  given special treatment in the partnership programme launched by NATO in  January.
The Russians have recently stepped up their demands to be included in  NATO's deliberations on Europe, particularly on ex-Yugoslavia. This falls well  beyond the scope of partnership-for-peace dialogue.
Sixteen countries of the old communist bloc have so far joined the  partnership but Russia has held back on the grounds that it wants more than  the programme offers -- particularly dialogue on European affairs.
"The discussion today reflected the strong view that there should be scope  in the broader NATO-Russian relationship for dialogue and cooperation that  reflects the role and the importance of Russia in European security and  stability," a NATO spokesman said.
But the meeting agreed that Russia could not be given preferential  treatment over, say, Hungary or Poland in the partnership-for-peace programme.
The partnership offers a range of options for military cooperation  including joint military manoeuvres and peace-keeping operations.
Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev is expected to produce Russia's  vision of the programme when he visits NATO headquarters here next Wednesday  to outline Moscow's post-Cold War military doctrine.
NATO officials say they are particularly interested to hear how the  doctrine will be applied to countries which were formerly part of the Warsaw  Bloc.
