Northern forces fired two missiles at this  port city on Thursday and despatched a column of tanks rumbling towards the  Mukalla headquarters of southern leader Ali Salem al-Baid.
A spokesman here said the attack on Aden was a "serious escalation of the  war" after two Soviet-made Lunas were fired at the airport.
One missile plunged into the sea while the other was hit in flight by  anti-missile fire and disintegrated, with debris damaging cars.
Witnesses said a large column of northern tanks had left Al-Ataq in the  oil-rich eastern Shawba province heading for the port of Mukalla, 300  kilometres (186 miles) away.
Baid quit Aden and set up base 600 kilometres away (372 miles) in his  birthplace Mukalla, from where he declared the independence of the breakaway  Yemen Democratic Republic ending four years of troubled union in Yemen.
The missile attack came just two days after a southern missile slammed  into a densely populated area of the northern capital Sanaa, killing at least  13 people and wounding more than 100.
It showed the "Sanaa government's lack of credibility -- on one hand it  says it is ready to accept a ceasefire while on the other hand it fires  missiles at Aden," a southern spokesman charged.
After the missile attack warplanes swept northwards from Aden to attack  rival northern forces, who are locked in a major battle for control of the key  base of Al Anad.
Because of the intensity of the fighting correspondents were unable to  reach Al Anad, which controls the northern approaches to Aden.
In Cairo, Haidar Abu Bakr al-Attas, prime minister of the breakaway  southern state, met President Hosni Mubarak and afterwards said the south  wanted the UN Security Council to intervene.
"We think stopping the war is the most important issue at the moment and  the Security Council could help," he said.
Diplomatic efforts to end the conflict between the former conservative  North Yemen and the Marxist South which merged in May 1990 also stepped up.
Saudi King Fahd spoke to Mubarak and United Arab Emirates leader Sheikh  Zayed ibn Sultan al-Nahyan by telephone late Wednesday, after the United  States contacted all three countries to try to broker a ceasefire, the  official Saudi agency SPA said.
Planning Minister Abdelkarim al-Iryani, a close ally of President Ali  Abdallah Saleh, has said the north was ready for a ceasefire provided leaders  of the southern Yemen Socialist Party recognised Yemeni unity and the Sanaa  government.
But Abdel Rahman al-Jiffri, vice chairman of the presidential council set  up to run the breakaway southern state, said: "A ceasefire would only be  acceptable if Ali Abdallah Saleh's forces withdraw to their former positions,"  on the other side of the old border between North and South Yemen.
"In this event, unconditional negotiations can begin under the auspices of  the Arab League."
