President Bill Clinton's dilemma over whether  to renew China's most favoured nation (MFN) trade status echoes the foriegn  policy muddles he has gotten into with other major trouble spots.
As with the crises in Haiti and Bosnia, Clinton has backed himself into a  corner over China by making promises he cannot keep and issuing threats he  will not carry out.
Last year Clinton extended China's MFN over protests about Beijing's human  rights abuses but said this time around they would have to show significant  progress on their rights record or lose their benefits.
On Tuesday Clinton said he would make an announcement before he leaves for  Europe on June 1, adding: "I have an idea where its going."
The White House said Secretary of State Warren Christopher has not yet  given his formal recommendation to Clinton, but did not deny reports that  Christopher told China it had met the two mandatory conditions for MFN  extension: easing up on emigration restrictions and ending forced prison labor.
The administration's demand requires that only significant "overall"  progress be made on five other conditions.
Coming on the heels of a similar statement by Commerce Secretary Ron  Brown, the report on Christopher suggests that the ground is being prepared  for Clinton to renew the trade status -- albeit with some limits.
An official said earlier that the White House might take a middle-ground  approach that would impose targeted sanctions for certain goods.
Most lawmakers support maintaining good trade relations with China, as do  big business and most analysts who believe Clinton made a big mistake by  linking trade with human rights issues.
But that decision could also revive charges that Clinton is compromising  his convictions and falling down on his promises, that he is yet again being  held captive by his campaign pledges of 1992.
"Congress is aware of the president's dilemma, but it is a dilemma of his  own making," said a congressional source who argued that Clinton could have  pressured Beijing to halt abuses without bringing trade into it.
After the bloody crackdown in Tianamen Square on June 3 1989, the  Democratically controlled Congress voted to tie China's human rights record  with its trade benefits but then-President George Bush vetoed it.
The source said the vote had been aimed at Bush, who was considered soft  on China, but that when Bush rejected it Clinton foolishly picked it up.
"He did it out of inexperience," he said, adding that Clinton never had  any intention of cancelling China's MFN.
"He said that during the campaign without realizing full well what was  involved," said the source.
Clinton has encountered similar problems in two other international  crises: Haiti and Bosnia.
In 1992, he accused Bush of having a weak policy for resolving the  conflict in the former Yugoslavia and promised to use air strikes to end Serb  aggression.
And then he started backpeddling after the election.
He also attacked Bush's policy on Haiti, calling it cruel because it  immediately repatriated refugees picked up at sea and sent them back to an  uncertain fate in Port-au-Prince.
But then after the election he adopted the same policy, expressing concern  about a mass exodus to US shores.
He and only agreed two weeks ago to modify the procedure amid protests  from rights groups and a surge in political violence on the Caribbean nation.
