Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh called off a  ceasefire on Saturday and vowed that his northern forces would capture the key  port city of Aden after his southern rivals declared an independent state.
Saleh told a press conference at the presidential palace that fighting had  raged on after southern forces ignored a three-day truce the north declared  late Friday.
Southern troops were still fighting so "there is no ceasefire," he said.
"We already said we were adhering to the ceasefire but the separatist  forces initiated fighting on all war fronts this morning, so fighting is going  on."
The president added: "We are now putting a military ring around Aden," the  former capital of Marxist South Yemen, which united with conservative North  Yemen four years ago.
"After putting this ring around Aden our intention was not to enter the  city. However, after the announcement of separation by the south we are  obliged to enter the city at all costs."
He added: "Then the armed forces will continue to pursue the separatists  in Mukallah," a port east of Aden where his southern rival Vice President Ali  Salem al-Baid reportedly moved his base earlier this week.
The northerners have been battling to reach Aden all week, but had earlier  said they would only blockade the city but not enter it, and promised not to  harm the civilian population of more than 500,000.
The north had announced the ceasefire for the Moslem feast of Al-Adha  (sacrifice), which starts on Saturday.
Asked how long the war, now in its third week, would last, Saleh said:  "This decision can be made only by commanders in the field. We hope it would  end as soon as possible."
"We are facing the war machine of a former state which was a member of the  socialist bloc, armed to the teeth," he said.
But he added that Baid's army had lost 80 percent of its equipment since  the start of the conflict on May 5. He charged that two Tupolev transport  planes had arrived at Mukallah airport and another ship was unloading military  hardware at the city's port.
"These aircraft and ships will be considered as the enemy," he warned.
He said a number of southern units had "declared loyalty to the legitimate  authority after they heard the declaration of separation," especially the  powerful Abbas brigade in the oil-producing province of Shabwa.
Several members of Baid's Yemen Socialist Party had also assured him of  their loyalty.
"Baid has no cause," he said. "If he had a cause he would have stayed in  Aden, now he has escaped to Mukallah.
"Baid will eventually have to run away to Oman or Saudi Arabia. He will  eventually have to join his separatist colleagues living abroad. In fact, he  has already sent away his family."
Asked about possible support from other Arab countries for Baid, Saleh  said: "Any Arab country or friendly state which may try to sympathise with  this position puts itself in the rank of the enemies of the Yemeni people."
"This would represent a flagrant interference in Yemen's internal  affairs," he said.
