Peace talks between Sudan's Islamic fundamentalist  military government and southern, mainly Christian rebels opened in the Kenyan  capital Nairobi on Thursday after a three-day delay, officials said.
The Kenyan-mediated talks had been scheduled to start on Monday.
But representatives of the mainstream rebel Sudan People's Liberation Army  (SPLA) were delayed as they had to walk through muddy swamps over the border  into Kenya because government warplanes had bombed an airstrip near their bush  base.
Once they reached northwestern Kenya, they flew to Nairobi where talks  began with the Khartoum government and the rival SPLA United rebel faction.
The negotiations are chaired by Kenyan Foreign Minister Kalonzo Musyoka.
The nine-member delegation from the mainstream SPLA group is led by a  senior military commander, Salva Kiir.
The talks here are the latest in a series of so far fruitless efforts to  broker a peaceful settlement to the decades-old conflict in Sudan by the  Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGAAD), grouping  Kenya, Uganda, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Eritrea and Sudan.
African diplomats were sceptical about the likelihood of a peace agreement  emerging from the new negotiations.
"Khartoum has not shown that it is willing to accept the rebels' demand  for a referendum on self-determination for the south," a senior diplomat told  AFP.
The government fears that such a referendum could lead to southern  secession, he said.
Representatives of both rebel factions and the government signed an  agreement Tuesday guaranteeing safe delivery of relief supplies to the south,  a vast undeveloped territory of swampland and savannah, gripped by war and  famine.
Khartoum has taken advantage of internal divisions in the SPLA, which  splintered into two factions in 1991, to recapture most southern garrison  towns that had fallen to the rebels.
But a major government offensive launched at the end of last year has so  far failed to push the rebels out of Sudan, where they can operate from the  bush, or to cut their supply lines from neighbouring Uganda.
The UN food aid agency warned this week that a major disaster was looming  in southern Sudan, where some two million people out of a 4.5 million  population depend on food aid.
The World Food Programme said a major disaster was brewing in Sudan but  relief supplies were being diverted to Rwanda, where fighting and ethnic  carnage have killed half a million people in six weeks and left millions in  need of food and medical aid.
