Peace talks between Sudan's government and rebels  were delayed because rebel delegates wading through steamy swamps got "bogged  down" and failed to turn up for the opening of the meeting, a spokesman said  Tuesday.
"Our delegation is walking through the bush in heavy rain," Stephen Wondu  of the rebel Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) told AFP. "We're doing  everything we can to get them here, but they only have vehicles occasionally.  They've got bogged down."
Representatives of Sudan's Islamic fundamentalist military government met  members of a rival faction of the mainly Christian and animist southern rebel  movement in the Kenyan capital Nairobi as scheduled Monday.
But delegates said little progress could be made without representatives  of the mainstream SPLA faction led by John Garang, the movement's founder.
Wondu said Garang's negotiators were up to their elbows in mud as they  trudged towards the southern border with Kenya, where they hoped to find a  relief plane to bring them to Nairobi.
Representatives of the SPLA-United splinter group led by Garang's former  deputy Riek Machar did show up for the meeting, the latest in a lengthy series  of negotiations to end the decades-old conflict sponsored by a group of six  east African nations, the Inter-governmental Authority on Drought and  Development (IGAAD).
But an agreement guaranteeing safe passage for relief supplies could not  be signed by the rebels or government because Garang's delegates failed to  turn up, officials said.
The talks were suspended, and Kenyan officials expressed optimism that the  rebel delegates would reach Nairobi later Tuesday.
"These people have no sense of time," complained an African diplomat close  to the tortuous peace process. "Things proceed at a snail's pace."
A major government offensive launched at the end of last year in what  diplomats said was intended as a final push to crush the southern rebellion  also seems to have got bogged down, diplomats said.
Fighting has continued despite the onset of the rainy season which turns  much of the vast, undeveloped south into swamp and marsh.
But the government has failed to deliver a coup de grace to the rebels or  cut their supply lines from neighbouring Uganda.
