A 26-year-old anorexic's fight for  survival hung in the balance Thursday as the British woman awaited the outcome  of a media bidding battle for her exclusive story.
The woman, whose twin sister has already dieted herself to death, was  relying on the outcome of a battle between such British media giants as  Granada Television and the Daily Mirror newspaper to pay her medical bills at  an exclusive clinic which specializes in bringing victims of anorexia and  bulimia back to the world of the living.
Samantha Kendall, 26, is due to check in some time next week at the  Montreux Society for Eating Disorders clinic, in a converted mansion in this  posh Pacific coast city.
But first she is scheduled to appear in New York on the Maury Povitch  Show, a television chat show on the Fox Television Network which has agreed to  pay some of Kendall's expenses.
Then, if everything goes well, Kendall will be flown to British Columbia  to check in for between six months and a year, said the clinic's spokeswoman  Laurie Winn Stanley.
Winn Stanley said the cost of the treatment could run anywhere from 75,000  Canadian dollars (54,000 US) to 200,000 dollars (144,000 US), depending on the  patient's length of stay.
"In our experience," Winn Stanley told AFP, "she will need to be here for  at least six months and, depending on her progress, she might have to stay for  a year.
"So we have to be fairly sure that our costs will be covered. We are a  non-profit organisation and we are not able to carry the costs ourselves."
Hence the importannce of the media bidding battle in Britain.
"We've advised the family how to go about it. But the mother (Susie, 47)  hasn't listened to us. I believe she gave a television interview in Britain  for just 2,000 pounds (less than 3,000 USD).
"They really must get the money together."
Winn Stanley said she was waiting for news from Britain about the bidding  battle. She said she understood the bidders included Granada Television,  Central Tevision and the Daily Mirror -- "it seems Granada and the Daily  Mirror are the front-runners, but there's no shortage of bidders."
