President Bill Clinton said Wednesday  that the US military must be preserved from further cuts to protect the  country's vital interests and superpower status.
"We have been able to afford a right-sized military at lower cost but this  year we must continue to fight any deeper cuts to defense," he told graduating  midshipmen at the Annapolis, Maryland, naval academy.
The highly patriotic speech was the first in a series planned to mark the  50th anniversary of the Allied D-Day liberation of France from German forces  in World War II.
Clinton also used the speech to defend his much-criticized policy in the  former Yugoslavia and to insist on the need for maintaining, and at times  using, US military might in the post-Cold War world.
"As the world's greatest power we have an obligation to lead and at times,  when our interest and our values are sufficiently at stake, to act," he said,  asking Congress to spare the million-member military further post Cold War  cuts.
The 1995 defense budget is 252 billion dollars.
He highlighed the navy's role, pointing out that the United States is a  maritime nation and that "over 90 percent of the human race lives within our  navy's reach from the sea."
"As long as these facts remain true we need naval forces that can dominate  the sea, project our power and protect our interests," he said.
"That is why this year I have resisted attempts to further cuts on our  defense budget," he said to applause.
Citing the number of violent ethnic conflicts, environmental disasters,  spread of weapons of mass destruction, economic instability and mass migration  across poorly defined borders, Clinton called for vigilance by US armed forces.
"The mere possibility of American force is itself a potent weapon around  the world. But this is clear: we must be willing to fight to defend our land  and our people," he said.
He said the United States also had to be ready to fight and defend both  its vital interests and its allies, citing the deployment of Patriot missiles  to South Korea.
But he stressed that the war in the former Yugoslavia does not warrant  unilateral US intervention.
He said he had always opposed the UN arms embargo being applied to the  outgunned Moslem forces in Bosnia, but strongly defended his decision not to  break the embargo unilaterally.
The war can only be ended at the negotiating table, he said, predicting  that a broad peace settlement would be reached.
"Our administration will not walk away from this Bosnian conflict, but ...  we must not opt for options that may sound painless and good, but will not  work," he said.
He urged the class of future navy and Marine Corp officers to emulate the  sacrifice that US forces made in World War II and particularly on D-Day, which  he called a "turning point in our history."
The gigantic operation to recapture France not only signalled the  beginning of the end of the Third Reich but ushered in a era of expanding  democracy, trade and peace, he said.
He also praised the post-World War II economic build up in the United  States and urged Americans to "win the peace" after the Cold War and confront  domestic problems such as the enormous budget deficit.
"The challenge of your generation is to remember the deeds of those who  served before you and now to build on their work in a new and very different  world," Clinton said.
Clinton, who avoided being drafted to fight in the Vietnam War and is the  first president to have been born after World War II, took pains to praise the  military.
Clinton will join other leaders for D-Day remembrance ceremonies in  Normandy, France, where the Allied invasion took place June 6, 1944.
