Ukraine Saturday said it would not use force against  Crimea unless separatists there resort to armed provocation after telling the  United Nations and NATO that moves by the secessionist republic threatened  regional peace and stability.
Ukrainian Foreign Miniter Anatoli Zlenko wrote to the United Nations and  NATO warning that his country "reserved the right," should the situation  deteriorate, to take all necessary measures to safeguard its borders, but did  not state what these would be, ITAR-TASS news agency said.
"Peace and stability in the region are threatened and this could have  serious consequences given the current situation in this part of the  continent," the letter said.
It called restoration by Crimean deputies Friday of a 1992 constitution,  tantamount to declaration of independence from Kiev, an "illegal decision"  that was both a threat to the Ukrainian constitution and the country's  territorial integrity.
Ukrainian lawmakers Friday gave the pro-Russian Crimean assembly 10 days  to repeal the action and "conform with the laws and constitution of Ukraine."
In an interview with AFP Saturday, Zlenko ruled out the use of force  against Crimea unless separatists there resort to armed provocation.
"We will abstain from using force, unless of course another party launches  armed provokation," Zlenko said.
ITAR-TASS, citing Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, said Russian  Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and his Ukrainian counterpart Yefim  Zviagilski would discuss the crisis in Moscow Monday.
Kozyrev urged Kiev and Simferopol "not to repeat the tragedy in Yugoslavia  where everything started after a call for sovereignty followed by an ultimatum  to impose respect of state integrity.
A Crimean assembly official said Saturday the parliament would not go back  on Friday's decision despite Ukraine's threats.
However, Crimean legislators are ready to enter talks with the Ukrainian  parliament to resolve the crisis, said Sergei Nikulin, head of the  parliament's majority Russia group.
Meanwhile an aide of Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk said the president  would demand "full powers" from the Kiev parliament if the Crimean deputies  refused to go back on their independence resolution.
The powers will be demanded in order that "the president can, as guarantor  of the constitution, assure the sovereignty and territorial integrity," of  Ukraine, said Nikolai Mikhalchenko, head of the presidency's department of  home affairs.
Mikhalchenko refused to say whether the "full powers" would bring in  direct presidential rule or a state of emergency.
Kravchuk has warned that Kiev "has enough power to force respect" of  Ukrainian sovereignty.
Zlenko meanwhile said that he spoke with his Russian counterpart Kozyrev  on Saturday and that he had, "confirmed that Russia would not intervene in the  situation created in Crimea."
Moscow and Kiev "have a mutual understanding that the actions taken by the  Crimean leadership are neither in Ukraine's nor in Russia's interests," Zlenko  said.
Meanwhile, conflicting reports circulated on Ukrainian troop movements in  Crimea.
Simferopol said Saturday 250 Ukrainian soldiers landed overnight at  Sevastopol, the main port of the disputed Black Sea fleet, and that another  350 to 400 were expected shortly.
However, witnesses at the Sevastopol marine institute, where the  Ukrainian's were supposed to have landed, said they had observed no troop  movements.
The Ukrainian navy said in a statement that "an armoured battalion and an  anti-aircraft division would be sent from coastal defences to Sevastopol  shortly" but ITAR-TASS said Ukraine had criticized Russian Defence Minister  Pavel Grachev after he said Friday that he had received reports that Ukraine  was sending troops to the area.
The reports that Ukrainian troops were building up near Sevastopol and  Simferopol were "nothing but rumours" and a "blatant lie," the Ukrainian  defence ministry press centre said.
