EU and UN mediators on ex-Yugoslavia set off for  Belgrade on Monday to seek backing from Serb leaders for a new multinational  plan to end the two-year war in Bosnia-Hercegovina, diplomats here said.
European Union mediator Lord Owen and his UN counterpart Thorvald  Stoltenberg left here tasked with persuading Serb leaders to accept a  four-month ceasefire in the former Yugoslav republic and fresh negotiations,  the sources said.
The truce package was agreed here Saturday in a declaration signed by the  United States, Russia and five EU countries -- France, Britain, Germany,  Belgium and Greece.
Diplomatic efforts to end the war will also resume in Washington later  this week with a two-day working meeting of the Bosnia contact group  comprising Britain, France, Germany, Russia and the United States in  preparation for further negotiations, the sources said.
Russia's special envoy to former Yugoslavia, Vitaly Churkin, who arrived  in Belgrade ahead of the mediators, said Monday that he believed Serbian  President Slobodan Milosevic favoured an end to hostilities.
After meeting Milosevic, Churkin said that "the president and Belgrade are  giving full support to the Geneva declaration."
Churkin added that he would call on UN special envoy Yasushi Akashi to  arrange a meeting between the warring parties as soon as possible.
Both Moslem and Serb leaders in Bosnia gave a chilly initial reception to  the Geneva initiative, which would give a proposed Moslem-Croat federation 51  percent of Bosnia, and the Serbs 49 percent, down from the 70 percent they  currently hold.
The Moslems and Croats are claiming 58 percent, on the grounds that  together the two groups make up 61 percent of the population, while the Serbs  want more than 49 percent.
The initiative offers little that is new in comparison with an accord  between the warring parties negotiated in November 1993, which subsequently  fell apart.
While in Belgrade, Owen and Stoltenberg are also due to discuss activating  economic talks between Zagreb and the leaders of the self-declared Croatian  Serb republic of Krajina, stalled since a March 29 bilateral truce accord, the  diplomats said.
