The sunshine states of California and Florida  are stepping up their battle to win back their reputation as tourist paradises  following a string of vicious attacks on foreign tourists.
Police patrols are being beefed up around airports and car rental offices  in both states as two California teenagers await trial in a brutal attack on  two German tourists, that left a woman dead and her husband fighting for his  life.
People renting cars in Florida are given a lengthy set of instructions on  how to stay safe, including the caution to always keep the windows closed.
But despite the new measures, "tourists still avoid Miami," said one  official at a Key West, Florida, hotel reservation agency, adding that even he  avoided red traffic lights in the risky neighborhoods between the airport and  Miami Beach.
Tourist industry representatives in Florida insist that authorities have  put a lid on crime. Robberies of tourists have plunged by 54 percent in the  first four months of this year compared to last year, said Dade County police  at a recent press conference.
The chairman of the Dade County commission felt confident enough to call  Miami International Airport the safest in the country.
The two states are not simply trying to restore hurt pride.
Tourism is Florida's chief money maker, bringing in about 31 billion  dollars a year.
In California, Japanese tourists account for half the state's 1.4 billion  dollar tourism income a year.
In the latest attack in the "Golden State" two German tourists were gunned  down May 16 after leaving their car by the side of the road to take a stroll  in the San Jacinto Mountains east of Los Angeles.
The woman was shot twice and killed. Her husband was shot in the shoulder  and mouth. He survived and told police that the assailants meant to finish him  off when they fired into his mouth, but that the bullet smashed into his  teeth, shattered his cheekbone and passed out through his cheek.
Two 19-year-old youths were charged Wednesday in the attack and more  arrests may be made, police say. Robbery was believed to be the motive.
On April 21 a Frenchman was found dead at a mountain resort east of  Sacramento, the California state capital. He had been strangled and robbed.
Given the importance of Japanese tourists to the state, the killing of two  Japanese students in a supermarket parking lot in March was particularly  devastating. They were shot dead by an unknown number of assailants who wanted  their car.
In Florida, 10 foreigners including four Germans, have been murdered in the  last 13 months.
