Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who struggled to live  a normal life despite being the widow of a glamorous president and of a Greek  shipping magnate, died Thursday surrounded by family and friends, according to  a statement from a family friend Nancy Tuckerman. She was 64 years old.
The former first lady died at her Fifth Avenue apartment, in Manhattan, at  10:15 p.m. (0215 GMT) after losing a battle with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Her daughter Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg and son John F. Kennedy, Jr.,  were
at her bedside when she died, along with a longtime friend Maurice  Tempelsman.
A large crowd of mourners gathered on the street, outside her apartment  building.
Onassis had refused antiobiotics for pneumonia and suffered from cancer  that had spread to her liver and brain, the New York Times reported in  Friday's editions quoting a health care provider.
Tuckerman would say only that she had stopped all medications.
A Roman Catholic priest administered the last rites Thursday to Onassis,  who left a hospital after deciding doctors could do nothing more for her.
Monsignor George Bardes of St. Thomas Moore's Roman Catholic church gave  her communion, heard her confession and administered the sacrament of  anointing the sick, church spokeswoman Margaret Peet said.
Onassis, widow of slain US president John F. Kennedy and of Greek shipping  magnate Aristotle Onassis, checked in Monday at New York Hospital-Cornell  Medical Center.
The hospital said she was suffering from "serious complications of her  malignant lymphoma" and received further diagnostic evaluation and treatment  before being released Wednesday.
"In accordance with the patient's clearly expressed wishes and with the  concurrence of her physicians, she has been discharged home," the statement  added.
As recently as Sunday, she was photographed walking in Central Park.
Onassis revealed in February that she had non-Hodgkins lymphoma. The  former first lady also underwent surgery for a bleeding ulcer in April.
"She's home, she's comfortable and she has family around her. There was  nothing more to do for her at the hospital and she wanted to go home," said  Tuckerman when she went home.
"She will not have any further treatment," said Tuckerman. "It is just  another phase of her illness which she's facing with great fortitude."
