China launched its widely acclaimed bid for  the Golden Palm Tuesday, but the premiere was overshadowed by its director's  decision to stay away in protest at China's censorship of his film.
Initial reaction to Zhang Yimou's "Huozhe" (To Live), seen by many as a  possible successor to last year's Chinese co-winner "Farewell My Concubine,"  was nevertheless generally positive.
"A strong contender," said one critic emerging from the press preview  screening of the movie, starring Gong Li, who helped "Farewell my Concubine"  to the top slot last year.
Zhang's decision to stay away was kept secret until Tuesday morning, hours  before the premiere of the film at the 47th Cannes International Film Festival.
A statement by Zhang read by producer Chiu Fusheng said the director would  not be attending the festival in protest at Beijing's refusal so far to allow  it to be screened in China.
"Because my film, "To Live", has still not received its censors' visa in  China, I am unable to come to the Cannes festival. I regret this very much,"  the statement said.
The film, by the director of the 1991 hit "Raise the Red Lantern," tells  the story of three generations of a family living through the China of the  1940s, 50s and 60s, including the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural  Revolution.
The press conference was also attended by actress Gong, a long-time  associate of Yimou.
Chiu indicated that Yimou himself, who was in Paris two weeks ago, had  returned to China and was "in a process of communication with the authorities"  there.
"By his own decision he thought it better to return to China for personal  reasons and to communicate with the Chinese authorities."
Chiu added that Zhang had already had experience of his films not being  allowed initially to be screened in China, but that the situation could change  within a few years.
"He has already had the experience that you must wait one year, maybe two  years, and so he hopes the film can one day be seen by Chinese people in  China. That is his deepest wish."
He added that that Zhang's seat at the various ceremonies in honour of the  film, which premieres Tuesday evening, would remain symbolically empty.
Festival director Gilles Jacob immediately responded to Zhang's  announcement by saying he regretted the decision, and that he "deplored"  Yimou's absence.
"Zhang Yimou cannot be with us today. The festival deplores that. He is a  world-famous filmmaker. He has made China loved throughout the entire world,  the whole world loves his cinema," he said in a statement.
"To Zhang Yimou, back there, I sent a personal message of friendship and  admiration.
"And, together with professionals from every country who are here, who are  lending their thousands of voices, tens of thousands of voices to me, I want  to say to him simply: 'Live!'
Gong tried to play down Zhang's statement. "The artistic aspects are more  important than the political aspects. I don't think the two should be mixed,"  she said.
"To Live" has been widely tipped as a possible successor to Chen Kaige's  "Farewell My Concubine," which won the coveted Golden Palm last year along  with Jane Campion's "The Piano."
Also premiered on the fifth full day of the festival Tuesday were Italian  Aurelio Grimaldi's "Le Buttane" (The Prostitutes) and Iranian Abbas  Kiarostami's "Through the Olive Trees."
