Rwandan rebel and army commanders opened  UN-mediated truce talks in Kigali on Monday, amid heavy fighting which  prevented UN troops from evacuating civilians, UN officials said.
Gunfire erupted outside the UN headquarters at the Amahoro hotel minutes  before army brigadier general Marcel Gatsuinzi arrived in a white UN armoured  personnel carrier.
His armoured vehicle broke down 300 metres (yards) from the UN  headquarters, delaying the opening of the talks by 30 minutes as two other  APCs were sent to collect Gatsuinzi, accompanied by four senior army officers.
Colonel Frank Mugambage, representing the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front,  arrived a few minutes later and went into the talks, mediated by UN deputy  force commander Brigadier Henry Anyidoho of Ghana.
Despite UN assurances that both sides would cease fire during the first  face-to-face meeting of military commanders, rebels pounded government troops  with artillery.
"It's a very tense situation here," said UN military spokesman Major  Jean-Guy Plante. "There's been heavy shelling and a lot of fighting."
Plante said the UN had delayed plans to evacuate civilians trapped behind  the battle lines in Kigali to safe areas because the army and the rebel Rwanda  Patriotic Front (RPF) had not provided assurances of security.
"It's all on hold because we still have to negotiate with the RPF and the  armed forces," Plante said.
The heaviest fighting was reported at the notorious Kadhafi Corner south  of the city on the road to Gitarama, where the government sought refuge last  month.
Rebels have advanced to within 10-kilometres (six miles) of Gitarama, and  have cut a possible escape route for the government to the southern town of  Butare, UN military sources said.
Rwanda plunged into tribal bloodletting on April 6 after President Juvenal  Habyarimana died in a suspected rocket attack on his plane.
Since then, up to 500,000 people have died in the fighting that has pitted  the mainly Tutsi RPF against the mainly Hutu government troops.
