Beijing warned Washington Sunday that it could not  afford to overlook China's global importance by maintaining its "out of date"  policy of attaching conditions to renewal of preferential trade terms.
Just weeks before the deadline for US President Bill Clinton to decide  whether to renew China's most favoured nation (MFN) status, foreign trade  ministry official Zhou Shijian emphasised how much withdrawal would cost  Washington in both economic and geopolitical terms.
"The US cannot ignore the fact that China has one-fifth of the world's  population and has its own nuclear power, that China is a permanent member of  the UN Security Council and is an important element for stability in the  Asia-Pacific region," the China Daily Business weekly quoted Zhou as saying.
When he extended MFN last year, Clinton warned he would not do so again in  1994 unless China made significant progress in human rights.
China, which has consistently condemned the linkage of trade and human  rights, has sent mixed signals to the United States in recent months --  releasing some prominent dissidents while arresting others.
However, Beijing has failed to take any significant steps to improve the  overall human rights situation in China, appearing confident that Washington  would not dare carry through its threat to withdraw MFN.
"Isn't it out of date for the US administration to be simmering with  debate over whether or under what conditions to continue MFN trade status for  China, while most western countries are helping their businesses to enter the  Chinese market?" Zhou was quoted as saying.
Emphasising that China planned to import one trillion dollars worth of  goods before 2000, he said the United States could not ignore this "vast  market" if it wished to keep its own economy going.
"We should be clearly aware of the fact that despite all the major or  minor skirmishes in the past, bilateral trade has developed in the fast lane,"  Zhou  said, pointing to a 176 percent rise between 1988 and 1933.
The China Daily said actual US investment in China was expected to hit nine  billion dollars this year, adding that a recent Chinese trade delegation to  the United States had clinched investment and export agreements worth more  than 13.5 billion dollars.
"The exceptional growth momentum proves that the mutually beneficial  nature of the two countries' economies is not subject to changes by wishful  thinking," said Zhou.
