North Korea sent an urgent message to South Korea  Saturday, protesting the defection of North Korean lumbermen in Siberia to the  South and demanding their repatriation, a report said.
"The authorities of your side must unconditionally and promptly send all  the kidnapped lumbermen back to the North and apologize to the nation and the  world," a North Korean committee was quoted as saying by the Korean Central  News Agency (KCNA), monitored here.
"If your side refuses to send them back to the North and continues  kidnapping our lumbermen, it would entail grave consequences in the  North-South relations as a whole, and the South side would have to pay dearly  for it," the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland told  its South Korean counterpart.
"Your side will be held wholly responsible for all the consequences to be  entailed in the North-South relations and history, and the nation will never  tolerate your side's inhuman and anti-national crimes," KCNA quoted the  committee as saying.
Five North Koreans, who escaped from Pyongyang-run logging camps in  Russia's Siberia, arrived in Seoul Wednesday to seek asylum in South Korea.
South Korea accepted the forest workers, despite Pyongyang's warning  against the "kidnapping of the North's lumbermen by the South side in the Far  East of Russia," KCNA said.
"Your side kidnapped again our ...  citizens engaged in normal  tree-felling in the Far East of Russia on May 18 and 20 and took them to  Seoul," the North Korean committee was quoted as saying.
"Such a shameless, inhuman and barbaric act committed by your side  against fellow countrymen, even in an alien land, is a heinous crime," it said.
Seoul's acceptance of the lumbermen is a "deliberate challenge aimed at  extremely deteriorating the relations between the North and the South," the  committee said.
"Your side's shocking crime can never be covered up with anything nor can  it be tolerated," it said.
"Though your side is claiming that our lumbermen defected to the South,  its maladroit trick is nothing but a drama, the deceptive nature of which has  already been fully revealed," the North Korean committee said.
