President Bill Clinton made up for hurriedly  anouncing his nomination of Stephen Breyer to the Supreme Court last week by  formally presenting him at a White House gathering on Monday.
Clinton urged a quick confirmation for Breyer, who he said had a "gift as  a consensus-builder," and predicted that the nominee he passed over last year  would become "one of our nation's outstanding justices."
Nearing the 40th annversary of the Brown v. Board of Education, a landmark  decision that desegregated US schools, the president noted the "central and  powerful role that the Supreme Court plays."
Asked about the delays and leaks that occurred in the weeks that Clinton  sought a candidate, the president blamed his penchant for seeking advise.
"If you seek advice, you will have leaks," he said.
In brief remarks in the White House Rose Garden, Breyer gave little hint  of his view of substantive issues likely to face the court, even the 1973  abortion rights decision based on a decision he had made.
But he did give a glimpse into his view of the purpose of law.
"What it is supposed to do, seen as a whole, is to allow all people, all  people in a society where they have so many different views, so many different  needs to live together in a way that is more harmonious, that is better, so  they can work productively together," he said. "That is a very general  statement but that is a very general purpose, I think, of law."
Breyer was not present on Friday, when Clinton said he would name him to  replace the court's most liberal justice. Harry Blackmun announced last month  that he planned to retire.
The appeals court judge from Boston, Massachusetts also nearly missed a  jogging date with the president early Monday. The president ran to the  capitol, where Breyer met him in a White House vehicle and the two jogged back.
Watching Breyer stretch out after the run, Clinton remarked: "This is the  last time I'll ever look over his shoulder. He'll spend the rest of his career  looking over my shoulder, and my successors'."
