In the days that followed the D-Day  landing of June 6 1944, ordinary Germans learned that there had been an  "attempted Bolshevist takeover of free Europe".
The regime's propaganda machine did its best to downplay the impact of the  landing and hide the fact that it had taken the military planners by surprise.
At the same time, Hitler and his generals realised that the landing was a  turning point in the war and that they were now fighting for survival.
"The vassals of Moscow have begun their invasion," was the headline on the  front page of the June 7 edition of the Voelkischer Beobachter the official  organ of the Nazi party.
The Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung (DAZ) said: "The enemy has left no room  for doubt that his goal is the annihilation of the Reich, the slavery,  deportation and extermination of the German people... and its bolshevisation."
Keeping to the official version put out by the Wehrmacht, newspapers spoke  of an "attack expected for a long time on the coast of northern France".
The DAZ was adamant that "nowhere were German defences caught off-balance".
However reading between the lines of the carefully worded reports,  revealing questions surfaced reflecting the disarray in the higher echelons of  the regime.
"We cannot yet say whether the attack on the Normandy coast and the  landing in the Seine estuary region are the main invasion or if it the first  stage of a bigger operation," wrote southern Germany's main daily, the  Muenchener Neueste Nachrichten.
The Voelkischer Beobachter wondered "why the enemy did not choose to make  the crossing at the narrowest part of the Channel where the French and English  coasts are only 40 kilometers (25 miles) apart" - that is between Dover and  Calais.
The area where the landing took place in the Le Havre/Cherbourg region is  150 kilometers (70 miles) from the coast of Britain.
The Wehrmacht's best tank divisions were massed north of the Seine estuary  and the Germans, taken in by Allied disinformation, lost valuable time by  staying put in the belief that the D-day landing was merely a diversion prior  to a bigger landing further north.
Five days after the "invasion", German newspapers spoke of "ships  approaching the coast between Calais and Dunkirk".
The Voelkischer Beobachter, perhaps better informed than the others, said  it seemed that "arrivals of enemy troops on this part of the coast are  apparently meant to deceive the German army".
Most of the press strove to down-play the Germans' delay in responding and  sending reinforcements to the battle theatre and the virtual absence of German  warplanes - 150 fighters against 7,500 for the Allies - by speaking of the  "enormous losses" inflicted on the enemy.
In a bid to allay public anxiety, the Voelkischer Beobachter published on  its front page on June 9, a photograph of Adolf Hitler greeting Hungarian  prime minister Doeme Sztojai.
Its inside pages contained reassuring articles and photographs of a  picture postcard Normandy.
Gradually however the confusion and the failure of German troops to  contain the Allied advance becomes more perceptible.
On June 10, the DAZ explained that German defences, broken between Bayeux  and Caen had done all that was expected of them.
"Their role was not to be an unbreachable wall but to serve as  wave-breakers.... The enemy only managed to break through coastal defences in  a few areas," it said.
But on June 12, the same paper published a photograph of "French refugees  fleeing Caen" under a blitz of Allied bombs.
All the press agreed on one thing: "The final battle has begun", the DAZ  said on June 7. "France has become the battlefield of its former allies," the  Muenchener Neueste Nachrichten said.
