Canadian Foreign Minister Andre Ouellet said  Tuesday his country would continue to expand its trading relations with China  despite criticisms of Beijing's human rights record.
Addressing the Canadian Institute of International Affairs, Ouellet said  that while his government would continue to press China on its human rights  record, Ottawa believed expanding trade would continue to be one of the main  priorities.
And he claimed that the Liberal government of Prime Minister Jean  Chretien, elected last October, was simply continuing a policy launched by the  previous government of Brian Mulroney.
"Under the previous government," he said, "in the four years after  Tiananmen Square, trade with China had increased 50 percent.
"Under this government, trade is continuing to increase. The difference  is: we do not try to hide the fact.
"This trade is beneficial, not only for Canada but also for China and its  massive population," explained Ouellet.
Pointing out that a series of bilateral high-level meetings will culminate  in November when Chretien visits China, Ouellet saisd even the United States  -- which had just renewed most-favored nation trading status for China --  accepted the importance of growing trade.
"Countries like Canada," said Ouellet, "must provide support to China."
Specifically, the minister pointed out that Canada could offer China a  great deal of help in energy and environmental matters.
"China's burgeoning population is placing considerable pressure on its  natural resources," said Ouellet.
"Water shortages in China are increasingly frequent and serious ... China  is the world's largest consumer of coal, and coal-fed electrical generators  are the engine of its growing economy.
"However, the human and environmental cost of burning coal is tremendous,"  he added.
Canada could help China is this respect both through increased trade and  specific aid said Ouellet.
While Ouellet emphasized that "on a bilateral basis, we have expressed our  concerns on human rights to the Chinese leadership," he insisted that trade  also remained a key priority.
He said Canada-China relations were based on "four pillars: economic  partnership, sustainable developmenmt, peace and security, and humand rights  and the law."
The minister insisted: "We will not sacrifice one at the expense of  another, and it is my belief that we have not done so in our approach to China.
"Only this kind of systematic and wide-ranging contact will be most likely  to lead to calls within Chinese society for greater openness and freedom," he  stressed.
