Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Shakhrai resigned  Tuesday in protest at being replaced in the key post of nationalities minister  and warned that Russia was again headed for a period of political upheaval.
"The appointment of a new nationalities minister was done without  consulting me and therefore I request to be relieved of my duties as deputy  prime minister," said Shakhrai, a moderate reformer who emerged over the past  three years as an influential member of President Boris Yeltsin's camp.
Yeltsin appointed Nikolai Yegorov, the governor of the southern Krasnodar  region, as nationalities minister on Monday after Shakhrai failed to make  progress in talks with ethnic leaders in the troubled Caucasus region.
The resignation of Shakrai fuelled speculation of a possible falling out  between him and other top presidential aides.
At a press conference, Shakhrai criticised Yeltsin's entourage, stating  that the "situation" in the Kremlin "made it impossible to work normally."
He complained that the decision to fire him from the nationalities post, a  portfolio which he kept under successive governments since December 1992, was  not taken according to normal procedures, but he did not elaborate.
Shakhrai, 38, warned that a new period of political upheaval was brewing  due to the ongoing conflict between the government and the newly-elected  parliament and predicted that Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin would be  forced to resign in August.
"In July, there will be major problems: rallies, strikes, that will  involve the military and the interior ministry forces," he said, adding that  the instability would lead to the departure of Chernomydrin.
He also said Yeltsin would face strong opposition from the legislature in  choosing a new prime minister and named three possible candidates to the post:  Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzkhov, Deputy Prime Minister Oleg Soskovets or the former  chairman of the Security Council, Yuri Skokov.
"It could lead to a repeat of last October, but I am an optimist and think  this will not happen", he said, referring to the violence that rocked Moscow  last year when the military put down a revolt by anti-Yeltsin leaders of  parliament.
Shakhrai said his resignation did not mean that his Party of Russian Unity  and Accord would join opposition forces in their battle against Yeltsin.
"We will continue to support all important measures in favor of reforms  and in particular those that can lead to the creation of a real Russian  federation," he stated.
Shakhrai has advocated strong powers for regional governments in the  federal system of government that Yeltsin has strived to establish in Russia  since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
The task however has proved difficult as leaders of the rebel republic of  Chechnya have refused to sign the federation treaty since they broke off ties  with Moscow in 1991.
Russian sources said Yegorov, the new nationalities minister, was a  respected politician among leaders of the Caucasus and that as governor of  Krasnodar, he had impressed political leaders with his ability to maintain  stability in a multi-ethnic region.
