China jailed two US citizens on Friday in a fraud  case of staggering proportions, emphasizing the campaign to stem the wave of  crime that has swept the country since economic liberalisation.
Francisco Hung Moy and Raymond Lee, both Chinese-Americans, were jailed   for 20 and 14 years respectively after public trials in the northern province  of Hebei, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
They were charged with bilking an Agricultural Bank of China branch in  Hebei of 200 standby letters of credit worth 10 billion dollars last year,  although no money was paid out.
Two officials of the bank -- one of China's largest -- were also jailed  for 19 and 11 years for "revealing state secrets" and for being conned by the  businessmen, Xinhua added.
The latest sentence in China's on-going battle against endemic corruption  was handed down Friday by the Higher People's Court of Hebei Province, which  upheld earlier convictions by two lower courts.
It came three weeks before Clinton must judge whether to renew China's  most-favoured-nation (MFN) trading status in the face of persistent concerns  in Washington for human rights.
"The timing is very provocative to the United States," one analyst said.
The case, he said, may call into question the safety in China of overseas  Chinese of any nationality, many of whom have found themselves detained in  remote cities after running afoul with local business partners.
US diplomats in Beijing had no immediate comment, although Xinhua claimed  that their embassy had been informed of the trial date "in accordance with a  Sino-US consular treaty."
Moy, 45, was chairman of United Asia (Group) Corp., and Lee, 44, its  finance manager, but Xinhua did not name the pair's hometown or place of  business.
The American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong, to which most US citizens  doing business in China belong, had no record of either men or of their  company on their database.
According to Xinhua, Moy and Lee tricked the two bank officials, Zhao  Jinrong and Xu Zhiguo, into issuing 200 irrevocable and transferable standby  letters of credit to the amount of 10 billion dollars.
Zhao was director of the Hengshui branch of the Agricultural Bank, while  Xu was his deputy.
The letters of credit were to cover three agreements signed by Zhao, Moy  and Lee in April 1993 on "cooperatively introducing foreign capital for  investment and development projects" worth five billion, 1.6 billion and 3.4  billion dollars, it said.
"During discussions, Moy and Lee claimed that their corporation had many  powerful business partners in many countries," Xinhua said.
Later on, when "some foreign companies" questioned the authenticity of the  letters of credit, Lee "cheated Zhao again" into agreeing to a letter  "repeating their lie that the letters... caused no risk to the bank."
The court held that the swindle caused severe social damage, infringed  upon the rights and interests of the Agricultural Bank, and seriously hampered  China's financial and social order, Xinhua said.
