President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe on Thursday  reiterated pledges to remove restrictive business practices in his country,  saying Zimbabwe now offered "major opportunities" for investment and growth.
In a speech to a investment forum organised by the Confederation of  British Industry (CBI) and the Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries (CZI)  here, Mugabe said he was keen to see a growth in foreign investment,  particularly from Britain.
Britain is already Zimbabwe's largest foreign investor, with trade between  the countries last year standing at 300 million dollars. Since the beginning  of this year, trade has increased 46 percent over 1993.
"We have taken measures to move away from a highly regulated economy to  one where market forces are allowed to play a more decisive role," he said.
Also speaking at the CBI conference was Michael Heseltine, the President  of the British Board of Trade, who said Zimbabwe presented "trading  opportunities which are too good to miss."
Mugabe's comments came at the start of a three-day state visit, his first  since the end of colonial rule in the former Rhodesia 14 years ago. He met  Queen Elizabeth II and held "very friendly" talks with Prime Minister John  Major.
The trip is aimed at encouraging investment in his country, with Britain  one of the major donors to Zimbabwe's economic reform programmes. Japan,  Germany and the US are also major foreign investors.
Mugabe reiterated that Zimbabwe was committed to the relaxation and  eventual abolition of exchange controls, scheduled for 1996.
"We are keen to see growth in direct foreign investment with a long-term  commitment to the economy, particularly the introduction of new technology and  the creation of new markets for our exports," he said.
He said investment was much needed to expand the manufacturing and mining  sectors and to build factories, adding the country needed to produce capital  goods such as machines, for domestic use and for export to earn foreign  currency.
Under pressure from the West and moderates in his cabinet, Mugabe is  considered to have steadily eschewed the socialist rhetoric that had limited  investment, and his country's economy has been transformed by a reform  programme started with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund in 1990.
Mugabe noted that the new government in South Africa and a peace accord in  Mozambique had opened opportunities to enhance trade and investment.
He added that Zimbabwe was better placed than South Africa to attract  foreign investment because of its long political stability, low wages and  educated labour force.
Agriculture, mining and manufacturing make up about 45 percent of  Zimbabwe's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) while construction, transport,  telecommunications and hotels account for the balance. Manufacturing accounts  for 25 percent of GDP.
In 1993, the economy grew by 2.2 percent and is expected to grow by four  to six percent in 1994, but inflation is a hefty 30 percent.
His government is committed to reducing the imbalance of the distribution  of land.
Although there are only around 50,000 whites in the country out of a  population of around 10.4 million, they own 70 percent of the most productive  agricultural lands.
Such a policy has worried potential investors who feel their investments  could be absorbed by the state.
But Mugabe stressed: "My government is committed to the protection of  individual property rights.
