Japanese textile giant Toray Industries Inc. said  Friday its consolidated pre-tax earnings plunged 38 percent from a year  earlier to 33.8 billion yen (328 million dollars) in the year to March.
The company said global sales fell 8.9 percent to 884 billion yen,  depressed by lower sales of mainstay products such as fibres, textiles,  plastics and chemicals which offset higher sales of pharmaceuticals and other  new products.
Toray, the country's biggest textile concern, forecast improved earnings  of 40 billion yen for the current year on stronger sales of 920 billion yen.
In the latest year, sales of fibres and textiles dropped 12.8 percent to  408 billion yen as sales of plastics and chemicals fell 6.1 percent to 219  billion yen. Revenue from housing and engineering activities declined 12.7  percent to 135 billion yen in the same period.
Sales of pharmaceuticals and medical products came to 52 billion yen and  sales of new products and other items came to 69 billion yen.
Although direct comparisons were not available, a spokesman indicated that  sales of pharmaceuticals and medical products grew by around 11 percent from a  year earlier while sales of new products were up by around three percent.
Toray said sales of its Feron natural interferon drug increased, along  with sales of its Dorner peripheral vascular disorder drug and its Filtryzer  artificial kidneys. Sales of liquid crystal displays, colour filters and home  water purifires also expanded, the company said.
"In the apparel field, sales of nylon and tetoron polyester filament yarns  were affected by low-level consumer spending and increased imports of  inexpensive products encouraged by the rapid appreciation of the yen," the  company said. Sales of industrial products also declined.
"Our resin business continued to face a challenging environment due to  weak demand in the key client industries such as electronics and automotives,  while the strengthened yen encouraged a sharp increase in imported resign  products."
Toray added that sales of polyester film suffered from "severe" price  competition as Japanese tape makers continued to shift production abroad.  Exports of caprolactam, the raw material for sythetic fibres, were poor.
