Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres left Oslo for  Paris Thursday after talks with Norwegian officials on economic aid to  Israeli-occupied territories and setting up the next round of discussions with  the PLO.
Norway heads a coordinating committee of countries supplying aid to the  territories.
In Paris, Peres is due to meet French President Francois Mitterrand and  attend a memorial evening for singer Yves Montand, a friend, who died a year  ago.
Peres and Palestine Liberation Organisation chairman Yasser Arafat  announced early Thursday after meeting here that they had agreed on an agenda  for the next round of talks about the occupied territories.
Peres emerged from one hour of talks with Arafat to tell a news  conference: "An agenda was actually agreed upon, namely that we are going to  negotiate the early empowerment some time in the future."
By "early empowerment," he meant the application of Palestinian autonomy  in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho, from which the Israeli  army finished its withdrawal overnight Tuesday.
Those talks would probably take place in Cairo, Peres said, adding:  "Basically we feel that the withdrawal went on very well, better than all of  us expected and it was received with enthusiasm."
Further negotiations about the extension of Palestinian autonomy to the  rest of the occupied West Bank would be held in Washington at a date still to  be arranged, he said.
"The extension of the autonomy talks should be in Washington and this  depends very much upon other Arab countries coming in," he said.
Arafat said the talks had been "very important and fruitful discussion ...  through which we discussed very important items concerning the new situation  after the withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area, and the next  step, and the coordination between both of us in all fields."
He confirmed that they had also talked about the rest of the West Bank,  negotiations that would require the participation of other Arab countries.
