firm. The price of wheat remained firm on the London market,  little affected by see-saw trading on the Chicago market, which is the world's  main market for grains.
A wave of speculative buying and fears of a drought in US production zones  pushed prices generally higher across the Atlantic.
But prices then dropped as quickly as they had risen after rains fell  towards the end of the week, signifying better crops, and as dealers took  profits.
The International Wheat Council (IWC) announced later in the week that  Russia had purchased 200,000 tonnes of wheat from the European Union which  helped firmer prices on the European markets.
The IWC also reduced its world production estimates to 555 million tonnes  for the 1993-1994 season (July-June) compared with 556 million tonnes  previously estimated.
In the 1994 calendar year, the harvest is predicted to reach 545 million  tonnes, 10 million tonnes less than last year after a cut in production in  Russia, Canada and Australia.
TEA: higher. The average price of tea lifted above 120 pence per kilo from  119 pence the previous week, with strong demand for speciality teas from East  Africa whose prices rose by between four and eight pence per kilo.
The price of top quality tea rose to 160 pence a kilo from 155, while  medium quality tea lifted to 118 pence from 112 pence per kilo, while low  quality tea was at 85 pence from 78 pence per kilo.
The highest auction price was recorded by a Rwandan tea at 295 pence per  kilo, as the civil war threatens a considerable cut in production.
COTTON: higher. Prices lifted to around 0.86 dollars per tonne from 0.85  the previous week on renewed fears over a cut in the Chinese harvest and with  generally higher prices of commodities.
A parasitical worm which hit the Chinese harvest last year, threatens to  strike again, the chinese deputy minister of agriculture said, encouraging  producers to do everything possible to fight it and improve production.
WOOL: stable. The reference price of Australian wool on the Bradford  market remained stable at around 4.26 pounds per kilo -- the highest level  since December 1992, thanks to continued strong demand and poor supply of  Australian wool on the market.
