President Joaquin Balaguer, blind and aged,  stood on the brink of winning the presidency of the Dominican Republic for the  seventh time in a career that has run the gamut from dictatorship to democracy.
What may be Balaguer's last hurrah at age 87 was marred by charges of  fraud by his main challenger, Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, who said as many as  200,000 of his supporters were stricken from voting lists.
No stranger to political controversy, Balaguer declared "there has been no  fraud. The elections have been clean and pure."
A lawyer educated in Paris, Balaguer cut his teeth politically under  dictator Rafael Trujillo, rising from diplomat to appointive president in 1960.
A year later, Trujillo was assassinated and Balaguer moved quickly to  exile Trujillo's son and members of his family until he was forced into exile  himself.
After a civil war and a US military intervention, he returned home and was  elected to a four-year term as president in 1965 in an election that opponents  said was engineered in his favor by the United States.
It was the first in a succession of election victories that was broken by  his defeat at the hands of the opposition Dominican Revolutionary Party in  1978.
Eight years later, Balaguer was back, winning re-election in 1986 and 1990.
A bachelor with few close friends and an austere life style, Balaguer was  born September 1, 1907, the only son in a family of seven daughters.
Short of stature, and with a shuffling gate, he cuts an unprepossing  figure. But no man since Trujillo has dominated Dominican politics as has  Balaguer, who is said to have a keen mind, impressive memory and detailed  knowledge of the government.
He is credited with fostering political stability and modernizing an   economy subject to the boom-and-bust cycles of its main cash crop, sugar.
Critics, however, point to a record of human rights abuses, particularly  against leftist activists in his first years in office, and allegations of  corruption in governments he has led.
His government has done little to halt smuggling of fuel to Haiti in  defiance of a UN embargo.
