Alan Rudolph, director of the "Moderns,"  paid tribute Saturday to US movie legend Robert Altman for producing his new  film, hours ahead of its official premiere at the Cannes Film Festival.
Presenting "Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle" in the official  competition, Rudolph told a press conference: "His fingerprints are all over  this. He's the guilty one. Leave me out of this."
Altman, who has a retrospective of his work showing at the 47th  International Film Festival, produced Rudolph's latest offering, about  maverick US novelist Dorothy Parker.
Altman was not at the press conference, but Rudolph indicated that the  director, whose films include the 1970 Cannes Golden Palm winner MASH, was on  his way and would be at the premiere Saturday evening..
The film, also starring Campbell Scott and Matthew Broderick traces out  the life of the notorious alcoholic at the heart of the literary and  intellectual world of 1920s New York -- the vicious circle of the title.
Mixing black and white and colour -- unusually, with the latter used for  flashbacks -- the movie had been widely compared with Rudolph's 1988 film "The  Moderns," about the US intellectual and literary world in 1920's Paris.
Rudolph starkly rejected the comparison. "I don't think this film has  anything to do with "The Moderns" quite frankly," he said. "I think that's an  easy comparison because they're both in the Twenties."
But he said "The only thing they have in common apart from me is that they  were both shot in Montreal."
Rudolph, 50, strongly defended the independence of his films -- often  accused of eccentricity -- against the more mainstream US film industry. "Kill  a guy, tell a joke, that's how to make a hit in America," he scorned.
Jennifer Jason Leigh in the title role was preparing for her second  premiere in three days -- she played a hard-hitting journalist in the US film  that opened the festival Thursday, "The Hudsucker Proxy."
Asked about playing Parker, who tried on several occasions to kill  herself, she said: "Being inside her mind was a painful experience, but I wish  I was still making the movie."
Above all though Rudolph paid tribute to Altman. "When someone of that  calibre says they like something ... you think well maybe I'm doing it  alright," he said.
"He's not a good producer," he said. "He's a great producer."
