The Newman-Haas Indy-Car team denied  reports that British driver Nigell Mansell was contemplating a return to  Formula One in the wake of Brazilian Ayrton Senna's death.
"He is under contract with Newman-Haas racing for a multi-year basis that  includes at least 1995," Newman-Haas spokesman Michael Knight said Wednesday.
"This is just another one of those rumors that is not based on fact, and  that is all I will say about that.
"We had press conference toward end of last season to announce the  contract that included 1994, 1995 and options after that."
The press reports in Europe said Rothmans, sponsors of the  Williams-Renault Formula One team, had approached Mansell to drive for the  team from the Canadian Grand Prix on June 12.
They did not ask him for the May 29 Spanish Grand Prix because it would  conflict with the Indianapolis 500.
Mansell finished third at Indy last year after leading much of the race.  He is eager to improve on that finish, and last weekend put his Newman-Haas  Lola on the third row of the provisional grid.
But Williams-Renault still need a driver to replace three-times world  champion Senna, who was killed in a crash at the San Marino Grand Prix.
The team's bid to gain the services of Brazilian Rubens Barrichello was  rejected by Ireland's Jordan Grand Prix team.
Jordan spokeswoman Louise Goodman confirmed the approach on Tuesday but  said: "The reply was that Rubens was not available."
Mansell, who won the Formula One world championship in 1992 at the wheel  of a Williams-Renault, is another natural choice.
He became the first reigning world champion to make the switch to  Indy-Cars the following year.
Mansell and Newman-Haas announced their deal for 1994 and 1995 last  September, just before Mansell won the Indy-Car series title -- becoming the  first driver to earn the title in his rookie season.
Neither the team nor Mansell announced the financial terms, but it was  estimated that the Briton would earn at least 10 million dollars plus bonuses  for 1994 and 1995, with options to extend the partnership after that.
bb94
