Erich Honecker went to his grave in Stalinist  style, never once regretting the acts that made him a figure of infamy, and  holding fast to the notion that history would ultimately vindicate him.
The former East German communist party chief and head of state, who died  of liver cancer Sunday in Santiago, Chile at the age of 81, was the architect  of the Berlin Wall, probably the most notorious edifice ever made.
Honecker led the German Democratic Republic from 1971 to 1989, but  resigned in October 1989 shortly before the Berlin Wall collapsed amid a flood  of refugees to the West, and fled to Moscow in March 1991.
Expelled in July 1992, he was tried in Berlin for the deaths of Germans  killed trying to escape to West Germany, but was freed the following year and  allowed to go into exile after being diagnosed with cancer.
He fled to Chile, where his daughter lives, in January 1993.
Honecker never voiced sorrow for the hundreds who were killed while  fleeing to the West or for the millions of lives stifled by the web of  eavesdroppers and hidden microphones that kept him in power.
"Neither ox nor ass can halt the forward march of socialism," Honecker  liked to say to the workers in his trips to factories and collective farms.
While on trial years for the deaths of those killed while fleeing, the  former supremo reluctantly admitted that the slain fugitives had died "an  unnatural death."
They "not only had a human effect on us, but also harmed us politically,"  he said in a dry tone that earned him little sympathy among Germans.
But it also underlined how much Honecker was a grim anachronism in  Germany's post-unity era of satellite TV, faxes and five weeks' paid holiday.
Honecker was born August 25, 1912 into poverty in the Saarland, western  Germany, to a working-class family that was the archetype of human  exploitation in the industrial age. His father was a miner.
Those bitter early years and the socialist teachings of his father moulded  the young Honecker. From his youngest time, political activity was as natural  as breathing and eating: he set up a socialist cell in his junior school at  the age of 11.
His activism brought him to Berlin, at the cross-roads of European history  in the 1920s and 1930s, when Communist militants brawled with Nazi brownshirts  over the remains of the dying Weimar Republic.
In 1935 he was arrested by the Nazi authorities for taking part in an  underground Communist organisation. He was jailed until 1945, when the prison  was liberated by Soviet troops.
After the war, Honecker proved to be one of Stalin's most willing  disciples. The grey technocrat rose quickly through the ranks of the  Moscow-installed regime in East Berlin, taking charge of the party's youth  wing and then being handed the key task of ensuring internal security and  party loyalty.
Under the first East German party chief, Walter Ulbricht, Honecker was  tasked with building the Berlin Wall in August 1961, the act that forestalled  but could not prevent the finally fatal human haemorrhage of the East German  state.
Ten years later, the trusty Honecker was on hand to take over from  Ulbricht, who had shown signs of deviation from the Soviet line at a time of  agitation in Poland and Czechoslovakia.
But, ironically, it was the Soviet Union that unwittingly sowed the seeds  of Honecker's downfall, according to some historians.
In the first oil shock, Moscow effectively wrecked its allies' five-year  plans by forcing them to to pay higher prices for their energy supplies -- but  refused to pay more for their finished exports.
"This had the effect of forcing Honecker into economic dependency on West  Germany," said Wilfried Rogasch, a historian at the German Historical Museum  in Berlin.
Bonn dangled billions of marks in credit to win more and more concessions  on human rights and cross-border visits between East and West, using its  economic lever to bust open the hermetic seal of the Wall.
Honecker clung to his Stalinist doctrine, blind to any problems, while the  state sank deeper into debt and industrial decay, the extent of which remained  hidden until German unification in 1990.
