US Secretary of State Warren Christopher arrived  in Tel Aviv on Monday with reactions from Syria to Israel's peace package  after Damascus called for a "reasonable" withdrawal timetable for the Golan  Heights.
Christopher's scheduled talks with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin were put  off from Monday evening to Tuesday, state radio reported without any  explanation.
"Yes, there are (Syrian) reactions to proposals that are going back and  forth," the secretary told reporters on the flight to Tel Aviv after meetings  in Damascus with President Hafez al-Assad and Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara.
The visit to Syria came two weeks after his last regional shuttle when he  took Israel's latest peace package to Assad.
Rabin has offered a phased withdrawal, linked to security arrangements for  Israel on the strategic plateau captured in the 1967 Middle East war, in  return for total peace.
Christopher held an unscheduled meeting with Shara, who then returned to  consult Assad.
The secretary said it had been, "an especially unpredictable day."
He explained the prolonged stay in Damascus by saying he had needed to  clarify "a couple of things" before flying to Israel and so asked to see Shara.
"Each element is scrutinized with very great care," he said. The two sides  were "exchanging ideas and probing each other on very early aspects but very  important aspects."
"We are at the beginning of a very serious process," said a US official  who refused to be named.
Israel and Syria were "not on the brink of a breakthrough," he said,  explaining that there was "still a lot of work to do."
"But they are clearly seriously engaged in this process," the official  said.
He said Assad still insisted on total Israeli withdrawal from the Golan,  but noted that the Syrian press had been "more positive" in the last two days.
Official Syrian newspapers called for a rapid Israeli withdrawal from the  Golan Heights, urging an "acceptable and reasonable" pullout timetable.
Christopher was also set to meet Palestinian leaders and visit the  Palestinian self-rule enclave of Jericho on the West Bank on Tuesday.
