Debate on a whale sancturary  headed toward a final showdown Thursday at the International Whaling  Commission meeting, with observers expecting a compromise on a protection zone  in southern waters.
Observers said the latest compromise offered by Chile, Ireland and Mexico,   including 90 percent of the protection zone originally proposed by France,  had a chance of being adopted late Thursday or Friday.
"We are on the verge of a great vicory," said environmental activist  Casandra Phillips.
The latest compromise under discussion would provide exemptions to the  sanctuary in certain territorial waters, addressing concerns over sovereignty  expressed by Argentina and Chile.
The move faces opposition from Japan and Norway, the countries most  actively involved in whaling.
Norwegian delegate Karsten Klepsvik acknowledged that the new compromise  appeared to have enough support to be approved but maintained that he would  vote against it.
Twenty-three of the 31 countries represented at the conference must  approve a proposal for it to pass.
France proposed a total ban on hunting whales below the 40th parallel in  Antarctica. The 40th parallel circles the globe south of Buenos Aires,  Santiago and south of Australia and the southern tip of Africa.
The proposed sanctuary is designed to protect the 1,000 remaining blue  whales, which grow to 30 meters (100 feet) and can weigh 150 tonnes, and some  12,000 humpback whales.
The no-hunting zone would also benefit the much smaller minke whale, which  has replaced the blue and humpback as a target of Japanese and Norwegian  whalers.
The Japanese said such a ban actually would be harmful to the environment.
Japan estimates the minke population at 750,000 and said the animals eat  roughly five times the amount of fish humans catch.
Japan proposes to hunt up to 2,000 minke whales and said that would not  threaten the species, prized as a dining delicacy in Japan.
IWC President Luis Fleisher said that while the world ban on whaling  continued, the IWC was studying more humane methods of killing the marine  mammals.
