Pressure tightened on Sinn Fein Friday for a  response to an Anglo-Irish peace declaration after London provided  clarifications that included the promise of a referendum on the future of  Northern Ireland.
The pledge of a referendum, if the question of a united Ireland arose  during Ulster peace talks, came in a detailed reply to 20 questions from Sinn  Fein, the political wing of the outlawed Irish Republican Army (IRA).
Sinn Fein has yet to respond to the December 15 joint declaration, which  offered it a full part in Northern Ireland peace talks once the IRA renounced  violence for a minimum of three months. It has insisted on clarification.
The British government's response late Thursday to questions relayed  through Dublin appeared to offer little expansion on the declaration itself  apart from the referendum pledge.
But the form of the response, a measured commentary rather than the "brush  off" feared in some quarters, appeared to place the onus firmly on Sinn Fein  to persuade the IRA to end its campaign of violence against British rule.
Sinn Fein promised an answer to the 21-page British response after the  June 9 European elections, but said it was encouraged by parts of the  explanation.
But the movement's number three, Mitchell MacLaughlin, stressed "the  conditions that will render the IRA campaign redundant are still a long way  off."
"It would be very begrudging indeed not to recognize the fact that each of  our 20 questions have been addressed by the government and that in itself is a  positive signal," McLaughlin said in a radio interview.
"In the context of the painstaking effort of building a peace process in  Ireland, this movement has to be welcomed as an indication of serious intent."
McLaughlin said that Sinn Fein's answer to London's overture would not  come before the June 9 European elections but added that "the conditions that  will render the IRA campaign redundant are still a long way off."
Pressure came Friday from London, Ulster and Dublin for a halt to  sectarian violence while Sinn Fein pondered its answer.
There was, said Irish Foreign Minister Dick Spring, "absolutely no  justification for anybody to take one more life" after London's response.
John Hume, leader of the nationalist Social Democrat and Labour Party,  called on the IRA to "suspend its activities," calling the British reply "very  comprehensive.
"I don't think it does require a great deal of time and I would hope it  would lead to a total cessation of violence," Hume told BBC Radio. "In the  meantime...I have asked them (Sinn Fein) to get the IRA to suspend activities  while they are doing so."
A junior British minister for Northern Ireland, Michael Ancram, reiterated  warnings to the republican movement to stop "playing for time."
"There is also the question that has to be answered by Sinn Fein, quite  simply, when is the violence toing to stop, when is the killing and the terror  going to stop?" he told the BBC.
The Rev. Ian Paisley, the firebrand Ulster Unionist MP, derided the  British response, saying, "The thing is not finished at all. It means the  British government has been in cahoots with Dublin while Dublin is in cahoots  with the murderers."
Paisley, who has condemned the joint declaration since it was signed,  accused the British government of "lying through its teeth" about a  referendum, calling it a distraction and saying it would be held only  concurrent with one in the Irish Republic.
Since the beginning of the year, 30 people have died in sectarian killings  in Northern Ireland -- 13 claimed by the IRA, 17 by Protestant militia.
