England go into the opening  match of their South African rugby union tour against Orange Free State  Wednesday with a distinct height advantage in the shape of the tallest  lock-forward in the world -- Martin Bayfield.
Team manager Jack Rowell said he had picked a team with a blend of youth  and experience, saying: "Hopefully we will be able to field a squad of  inter-changeable players by the time we return for the World Cup in 1995."
England's coach Dick Best added: "We are looking to start the tour on a  high note, but our main aim is to return to South Africa for next year's World  Cup with a squad of 26 players familiar with the conditions."
Wednesday's team will be led by Wasp's captain and number-eight Dean Ryan.
Also included in Wednesday's side is Michael Catt, who played fullback for  Eastern Province and is familiar with local conditions.
Only two players in the Free State team seem likely to be in line for  national honours. They are incumbent hooker Naka Drotake and centre Brendan  Venter, making a return to first-class rugby after having his leg shattered 21  months ago.
Although it is vital for England to open with a morale-boosting win, it is  also important that the South African selectors view the matches against Natal  and Transvaal, on consecutive Saturdays, to assess not only the strength of  the opposition, but the strength of the players who are expected to make up  the bulk of the national team to take on England in two and a half weeks time.
England's team is: Paul Hull (Bristol), Adedeyo Abedeyo (Bath), Mike Catt  (Bath), Stuart Potter (Leicester), Damien Hopley (Wasps), Stuart Barnes  (Bath), Steve Bates (Wasps), Graham Rowntree (Leicester), Graham Dawe (Bath),  John Mallett (Bath), Lawrence Dallaglio (Wasps), Martin Bayfield  (Northampton), Matt Poole (Leicester), Steve Ojomon (Bath), Dean Ryan (Wasps,  capt).
Reserves: David Pears (Harlequins), Tony Underwood (Leicester), Dewi  Morris (Orrell), Victor Obogu (Bath), Brian Moore (Harlequins), Nigel Redman  (Bath).
