Forces loyal to Yemeni President Ali Abdallah  Saleh fought their way closer to this southern stronghold on Tuesday despite  meeting fierce resistance, witnesses said.
Artillery battles were raging only 30 kilometers (18 miles) from this  port-city, a bastion of Saleh's rival, Vice-President Ali Salem al-Baid.
Northern soldiers loyal to the president were also spotted at the village  of Al-Huta, some 25 kilometers (15 miles) from Aden, a city of half a million  inhabitants who were becoming increasingly alarmed at the approach of the  fighting.
The southerners were trying to halt the advancing troops with extensive  air power, and warplanes were flying sorties from Aden airport, an AFP  correspondent reported.
Hundreds of southern soldiers were seen heading towards the front along  main roads on Tuesday, while others, looking tired and demoralised, where  going back to the city, witnesses said.
Aden Radio remained adamant that southern forces were "repelling the  invaders," but local people were growing increasingly worried by foreign radio  and television reports of the northern advance.
A spokesman for the southern-controlled defence ministry said northern  forces who captured the key Al-Anad airbase had been driven back on Tuesday.  "Thousands of corpses are strewn in the battlefield," a spokesman said.
The base lies 50 kilometers (30 miles) north of Aden.
Saleh's forces were also trying to break through the eastern front, but  the southerners where still holding their defensive line, 40 kilometers (24  miles) from the city, travellers said.
Shells fired from northern positions to the east had fallen less than 25  kilometers (15 miles) from Aden, they added.
"If the northerners come, it would be a catastrophe, we would have to take  our weapons and defend ourselves," said Awad Saleh Ali, the sole remaining  employee at the French consulate after the evacuation of its staff.
The few remaining foreigners, mainly Americans, Britons and Belgians,  mostly killed time in the bar of the Eden hotel.
A military solution appeared inevitable after the failure of outside  mediation efforts to end the civil war, which began almost two weeks ago. The  northern-run agency Saba announced on Tuesday the failure of a five-day Arab  League mission to bring an end to the war.
"They were told that a ceasefire was impossible", Saba added.
Opposition parties led by Baid announced they would form a High Council for  National Salvation to run areas under their control, not just in southern  Yemen.
Diplomats in the Gulf said this measure might open the way to the  partition the country, only four years after its northern and southern parts  were united in a single state.
The Salvation council said Saleh's governement was illegal as the southern  ministers were sacked after war broke out, on May 5.
Confident in his military superiority over Baid, Saleh seems to have only  one goal, to eliminate his southern rivals and bring his other opponents under  his rule.
