Syria warned Friday it still insisted on a total  Israeli withdrawal from the Golan and was sceptical ahead of US Secretary of  State Warren Christopher's second peace shuttle in a month.
"Any settlement not based on the central issue of land is useless," an  official in Damascus said.
The official, asking not to be named, charged that Israel had "minimized  the US role by reducing it to a mere postman delivering the Israeli point of  view without any amendment."
The Israelis, during Christopher's last shuttle between Israel and Syria  earlier in May, had proposed "security arrangements before a peace treaty,  then a phased withdrawal over a long period," he said.
But any peace deal with Israel depended on a full withdrawal from the  Golan Heights, which the Jewish state seized from Syria in the 1967 Middle  East and later annexed.
"Syria will not accept anything less than a total pullout from the Golan  and southern Lebanon," the official newspaper Ath-Thawra said.
The task facing Christopher, who arrives here on Sunday before travelling  to Israel, is to "tone down the Israeli position and ensure the implementation  of UN resolutions" on land-for-peace, it added.
"It's important to keep the process moving forward," a State Department  spokesman said Wednesday.
"I don't think that it is the secretary's expectation to make a major  breakthrough on this trip or any trip for some time. There will be a lot of  trips," said Michael McCurry.
A sceptical Syrian press snapped up the comments. "This pessimism ... is  the result of Israel's negative stand and the king of proposals and ideas that  it submitted to Syria," said Ath-Thawra.
Christopher is expected to deliver an Israeli response to Syrian proposals.
After his last shuttle in early May, he believed Syria and Israel were  moving into a new phase in their discussions.
But Syria rejected an Israeli plan for a phased withdrawal over a period  five to 10 years, although Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara has said his  country's position was "neither obstinate nor extremist."
The length of Christopher's latest mission is flexible, depending on  whether he makes progress, according to the State Department.
