A treaty of asociation between Russia and the  European Union will be at the top of Germany's agenda during its forthcoming  presidency of the EU, Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel told visiting Russian  President Boris Yeltsin on Friday.
Yeltsin, on the last day of a three-day visit to Germany, met Kinkel to  discuss cooperation between Moscow and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation.  The Russian leader then headed to Stuttgart to meet businessmen.
Kinkel said in a statement released after their talks that he had pledged  Bonn would make the treaty "one of the top priorities of the German presidency  of the Union."
Bonn takes over the six-month rotating presidency from Greece on July 1.
The statement added that much of the meeting centered on new European  security arrangements.
Kinkel expressed hopes Russia would soon play an active role in European  security policy by joining the NATO-proposed Partnership for Peace programme.
"President Yelstin stressed Russia had no difficulty (with the accord) and  would sign soon," the statement said. "But Russia wishes to set out in a  protocol the specific content of the cooperation between NATO and Russia."
Kinkel, echoing an earlier pledge by Chancellor Helmut Kohl, also  reassured Yeltsin that Germany would back Russian efforts to obtain full  membership of the GATT world trade accord and of the G7 group of most  industrialised countries.
Earlier, Kinkel said he was looking forward to the talks with Yeltsin.
"It is an important issue for the Russians and for us as well," Kinkel  said.
Russian membership in the NATO partnership programme recently ran into  snags after NATO carried out air strikes in Bosnia last month without  consulting Moscow.
Kozyrev said recently that the current partnership programme was not  "agreeable to Russia" and added that Moscow would soon be presenting an  alternative plan.
The proposed partnership offers former Warsaw Pact countries closer  military cooperation with the alliance but stops short of giving them full  membership.
"The meetings in Bonn have provided an opportunity to move forward on this  question," said German government spokesman Dieter Vogel Friday, adding that  Yeltsin's visit here was positive overall.
Yeltsin was to head back to Moscow later in the afternoon.
