The Credit Lyonnais bank has demanded that  beleaguered French politician and entrepreneur Bernard Tapie repay a loan of  450 million (80 million dollars) immediately, it announced Thursday.
The state-owned bank said it would seize the possessions in Tapie's  luxurious Paris mansion if the debt was not repaid within a week.
Tapie has been charged with corruption and fraud in several affairs and  owes a total of 1.3 billion francs (230 million dollars) to Credit Lyonnais.
On Wednesday, Tapie brushed off a new bid by French justice to strip him  of his French parliamentary immunity and vowed not to be deterred from his  campaign for a seat in the European parliament, which would give him that  parliament's imnmunity from arrest.
The self-made millionaire and owner of the Olympic Marseille (OM) football  club told journalists he would make no further comment on his long-running  financial and judicial woes until after the European elections on June 12.
"All the judicial attacks and prosecution cases laid against me are solely  designed to stop me speaking out" on Europe, said Tapie who heads a Leftist  Radicals (MRG) list and is virtually certain to win a seat in Strasbourg.
On Tuesday, investigating judge Eva Joly called for Tapie's French  parliamentary immunity to be lifted so he could answer possible charges of  massive tax evasion relating to his luxury yacht Phocea.
Magistrates suspect Tapie of evading tax by declaring the 74-meter  (230-foot) Phocea to be a commercial vessel while reserving it for his  personal use.
In December, he was charged with embezzlement in a case involving one of  his companies, the weighing machine firm Testut.
In March, he was indicted for fraud and embezzlement in the accounting of  the OM soccer club and in February he was charged with being an accessory to  corruption and attempts to bribe a witness in a case of alleged match-fixing  in May 1993 with the northern French team Valenciennes.
OM were relegated to the second division as a result and face deep  financial trouble, notably because Tapie personally guaranteed their debts.
Last week Credit Lyonnais said Tapie had failed to comply with an agreement  to repay 350 million francs of his debt to the bank, and sent bailiffs to take  an inventory of Tapie's assets at his Paris home.
Tapie, whom critics brand a "rabble-rouser", has rarely been out of the  headlines since entering politics encouraged by President Francois Mitterrand.
He was elected to parliament triumphantly in March in the Bouches du Rhone  region round Marseilles in spite -- or perhaps because -- of all his judicial  problems which some Marseilles voters charged were all a "plot against OM"
