Taiwan said Monday it had no plans to resume  high-level talks with China until progress is made on resolving the mass  killing of 24 Taiwanese tourists and other thorny issues.
The cabinet-level Mainland Affairs Council (MAC) in a closed-door meeting  last week decided not to hold another round of talks between Koo Chen-fu, head  of the semi-official Straits Exchange Foundation (SEF), and his Chinese  counterpart Wang Daohan of the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan  Strait (ARATS), MAC officals said Monday.
Huang Kun-huei, chairman of the MAC, the top mainland policy planner, told  reporters here it was absolutely necessary for the two sides to call a meeting  to discuss the deaths of the tourists in a fire aboard a pleasure boat on  eastern Zhejiang's province's Qiandao Lake on March 31.
Huang said the entire case had to be resolved before Taiwan would move on  to other issues.
"The mainland side must speedily respond to our request that the special  meeting be held," he said, warning that no response from China would put other  talks in jeopardy.
The official's statement cast doubt on a possible second round of talks  between Koo and Wang who met for the first time in Singapore in April 1993.
Their historic meeting was the first in more than four decades of  hostilities, stemming from the defeat of Taiwan's Nationalist government at  the hands of the Communists in a civil war on the mainland which ended in 1949.
Taiwan officials were still unsatisfied with China's explanation for the  deaths the tourists.
Beijing initially called their deaths and a fire, which gutted the boat,  an accident but pressure from Taiwan led to the case being classified as  robbery and arson and to the arrest of four suspects.
Taiwan suspended cultural, education and sightseeing exchanges to pressure  China to investigate the case and is seeking compensation for the families of  the victims.
The incident has also caused problems for business, according to the local  press, with some executives complaining that the MAC was pursuing relations  with the mainland too slowly.
They are pressing for the government to restore direct links between the  two sides, especially opening shipping lines, and allowing Taiwan financial  institutions to conduct business with the mainland.
But MAC Vice Chairman Kao Koong-lian on Monday ruled out the possibility.  "Under our study, further channelling of our capital to the mainland will only  affect our financial development and result in our relying more on the  mainland market in the future," he said.
Five local banks have applied to the MAC to use their overseas branches to  do business directly with Chinese banks.
MAC officials emphasized that progress must be made on other issues such  as fishing disputes and the repatriation of Chinese hijackers and stowaways.
The SEF and ARATS were set up in 1990 as a way for the two sides to  discuss trade and other disputes without breaking a ban on direct contacts  imposed by Taipei.
The two bodies have held four rounds of lower-level talks since last year,  but all collapsed after they touched on the issues of sovereignty and  jurisdiction.
