Far from anticipating new opportunities if the  United States does not renew trading privileges for China, Asia-Pacific  nations say they would suffer.
Analysts and government officials across the continent say their  economies, now closely linked to China's, would be hurt more than helped if  President Bill Clinton decided to withhold Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status  to punish Beijing for human rights violations.
Japan, South Korea, Australia and Singapore all have pumped hundreds of  millions of dollars into mainland China. Hong Kong would be even worse hit.
While the Japanese Foreign Ministry is walking a tightrope between  Washington and Beijing, anxious to avoid offending either, Japanese companies  have privately expressed major reservations about Clinton's policy toward  Japan's second largest trading partner.
China is also the second largest destination for Japanese investment  abroad.
Osamu Yasuda, a senior researcher at the Nomura Research Institute, told  the Japan Times that withdrawal of China's MFN status could have a "double  impact" on Japan
"China would buy less from Japan if foreign currency earnings from US  exports suffer a sharp drop, and Chinese exporters would try to divert their  US-bound goods to the Japanese market," he said.
Han Chang-Soo, an analyst at the private Daewoo Economic Research  Institute in South Korea, said, "Denying China MFN trading status would help  our products restore competitiveness briefly in the US market, but that would  also seriously undermine our campaign to expand ties with China."
A South Korea Trade Ministry official said that "China was our third  largest trading partner last year."
The United States is still South Korea's biggest overseas market, but the  volume of trade between Seoul and Beijing increased sharply to 9.08 billion  dollars last year from 6.38 billion in 1992.
Guonan Ma of Australian National University's economics department said  the Chinese market would "shrink quite substantially" if MFN status were taken  away. "Hard currency earnings made by China may decrease substantially, and  that in turn would reduce its ability to buy Australian commodities," he said.
Australia already has a trade deficit with China -- 286.2 million  Australian dollars (206 million US dollars) in the 12 months to June 30, 1993,  the Department of Trade and Foreign Affairs said.
For Singaporeans, the greatest impact will be felt by businessmen with  manufacturing operations in China, Lee Ting Jian, research and business  information manager of the Singapore Manufacturers Association, said.
Singapore invested 200 million US dollars in China as of September 1993,  but contractual agreements to invest in the mainland amount to two billion  dollars.
In Japan, an analyst at the government-subsidized Institute of Developing  Economies said that if the United States refused to renew China's MFN status,  Kuala Lumpur's proposal for creation of an East Asia Economic Caucus, "will  become a more persuasive idea for China and the other Asian developing nations  in defending themselves."
Japan has balked at the trading bloc proposal by Malaysia, which, along  with Indonesia and Singapore, also faces disputes with the United States over  human rights and democratization.
Hong Kong officials are lobbying furiously for renewal of MFN.
The Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce estimates that at least a third  of China's exports to America that pass through the territory would be lost.  The financial damage from that was estimated at up to 10 billion US dollars.
Between 54,000 and 75,000 jobs could be lost with between six and nine  percent of Hong Kong's overall trade put at risk.
