US Secretary of State Warren Christopher  travelled to Israel on Monday with a Syrian call for a rapid Israeli  withdrawal from the Golan Heights as part of a peace deal.
The secretary held two rounds of talks with Foreign Minister Faruq  al-Shara, interspersed by consultations with his advisors. Straight after  arrival on Sunday, he held a four-hour-meeting with President Hafez al-Assad.
Christopher was to brief Israeli officials on his talks in Syria, where  the official press called for a rapid Israeli withdrawal from the Golan amid  reports that Syria wanted Israel to complete the withdrawal in three years.
State-run Damascus Radio praised the United States for deploying "intense  and serious efforts to help the parties move closer together and push forward  on the long road to peace."
Assad and Christopher had agreed to hold further talks and the secretary  was expected to return to Syria.
Christopher is trying to forge a Syrian-Israeli accord on the Golan, which  has been the stumbling block in negotiations between the two sides since the  Middle East peace process was launched in Madrid in October 1991.
A Western diplomat said Syria wanted an Israeli withdrawal to be completed  within three years, while Israel is offering a phased pullout over five to  eight years, with the initial return of three Druze villages on the plateau.
Syria's official news agency SANA said the Shara-Christopher meetings were  "held at the request of the American side ... to discuss the ideas and  proposals" which Assad and the secretary examined on Sunday.
The two foreign ministers also reviewed relations between Washington and  Damascus, namely a US decision earlier this month to keep Syria on a list of  countries sponsoring terrorism, informed sources said.
"The Syrians have been very angry with this decision and they feel that if  the United States considers them 'terrorists' then it is not logical for them  to be discussing peace," one source said.
The government daily Tishrin said Syria was willing to negotiate an  Israeli withdrawal from the Golan on condition Israel pledged a complete  pullout within an "acceptable and reasonable" timeframe.
"The necessary condition to help Christopher's mission to succeed is to  call on Israel to withdraw from the Golan immediately and rapidly according to  a well-defined agenda," Tishrin wrote.
A Western diplomat described the remarks as positive. "The situation is  going in the right direction and we are optimistic," he said.
However the diplomat ruled out a breakthrough in the near future. "The gap  between the two sides has been narrowed since Christopher's last shuttle to  the region two weeks ago but Israel and Syria are still wide apart."
Diplomats expect the United States, as chief sponsor of the Middle East  peace process, to intensify its efforts on the Syrian-Israeli track, following  the May 4 PLO-Israel deal on launching Palestinian self-rule.
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has offered to return three of five  Druze villages on the heights as a first stage in a three-step withdrawal over  five-to-eight years from the plateau which Israel conquered in 1967.
Syria has rejected the offer and was likely to turn down Israeli proposals  that Christopher try to persuade Damascus to set up a joint military  commission with Israel to "draft security arrangements" for the heights.
"Damascus is not begging for peace," the English-language Syria Times said  in an editorial, reiterating Syrian insistence for a total Israeli withdrawal  before peace with Israel.
Christopher was originally due to leave Damascus late Monday but a US  official said he had covered "all the topics he wanted to discuss" and would  be leaving for Israel earlier.
But the original schedule was finally retained, without any explanation.
