The Golden Palm, one of the world cinema's  most coveted prizes, was awarded Monday to "Pulp Fiction" by US filmmaker  Quentin Tarantino, at the awards ceremony which culminated the Cannes Film  Festival.
The award surprised some observers, after days of speculation that the top  prize would go to either Chinese director Zhang Yimou for his film "To Live"  or Poland's Krzysztof Kieslowski for "Three Colours Red. The latter received  no awards for his film.
The prizes were announced at a ceremony, hosted by veteran French actress  Jeanne Moreau, marking the climax of the 47th Cannes International Film  Festival, one of the world's top movie fests.
Jury president Clint Eastwood named as best actor China's Ge You, for his  performance in Zhang's "To Live," while Italy's Virna Lisi was named best  actress for her part in the French movie "La Reine Margot" (Queen Margot).
Tarantino's two-and-a-half-hour movie, starring John Travolta, Bruce  Willis and Harvey Keitel, caused a furore when it was presented only two days  before the end of the festival, Saturday.
Parodying various genres, notably Bonnie and Clyde and gangster movies,  the film is based on a complex structure in three parts, with apparently  unrelated characters coming together in a final tour de force climax.
Tarantino, the 31-year-old director of the cult film "Reservoir Dogs,"  only recently finished work on "Pulp Fiction," and saw it in its finished  version with an audience for the first time only at Cannes.
Accepting his award he expressed surprise at the jury's decision. "I don't  make the kind of movies which bring people together. I make movies that break  people apart," he said.
Also awarded were Best Director to Italian filmmaker Nanni Moretti for his  semi-autobiographical "Caro Diario" (Dear Diary), while the Grand Jury prize  went jointly to "To Live" and Nikita Mikhalkov's "Burnt by the Sun."
Chinese actor Ge You was named Best Actor for his role as Fugui in "To  Live," which had been widely tipped as a strong contender for the Golden Palm.
He plays Fugui, a young man initially conscripted into the Chinese  anti-communist army, then forced to come over to Mao's side, and finally  trying to bring up his young family through the turbulent years of the Chinese  Cultural Revolution.
Italian actress Virna Lisi visibly wept as she received her award for her  role as Catherine of Medici in "La Reine Margot," which also received the jury  prize for director Patrice Chereau.
Monday night's announcement ended days of speculation among critics here,  for whom no single film clearly excelled. Zhang's "To Live" and Kieslowski's  "Three Colours Red" had been widely tipped.
The unpredictability of this year's contest contrasted with last year --  when Jane Campion's "The Piano" and Chen Kaige's "Farewell to My Concubine"  led almost from their first screenings.
The closing film of the festival was also screened Monday. "Serial Mom" by  US director John Waters, starring Kathleen Turner in a kitsch comedy about a  whiter-than-white suburban mother with a penchant for murder.
