North Korea has begun extracting fuel rods from its  Yongbyon reactor in a "serious violation" of International Atomic Energy  Agency inspection terms that will be reported to the UN Security Council, the  agency said late Thursday.
The removal of the rods, if not halted immediately, could wreck the IAEA's  efforts to see if fuel had already been taken from the reactor, the world's  nuclear watchdog said in a strong statement.
Washington suspects the reactor, 90 kilometers (54 miles) north of  Pyongyang, is a nuclear bomb factory, and wants the IAEA to check whether the  renegade Stalinist state has been hiving off weapons-grade plutonium to build  a device.
The IAEA said it sent a telex to North Korea on Thursday to complain that  the withdrawal of the fuel rods "constitutes a serious violation of the  safeguards agreement" for monitoring nuclear facilities.
IAEA inspectors on site had "confirmed that core discharge has indeed  started," it said.
"Further discharge of fuel rods would jeopardise the possibility of the  agency applying safeguards measures necessary to verify whether any fuel has  been diverted in the past," the statement said, adding that the IAEA would now  report the violation to the UN Security Council.
The agency called on North Korea to stop further withdrawal of the rods  immediately, and said: "as of today, it still seems possible to implement the  required safety measures."
"Should (North Korea) continue the discharge operation without these  measures, it would result in irreparable loss of the Agency's ability to  verify whether all nuclear material subject to safeguards in (North Korea) is  in fact under safeguards and that no such material has been diverted."
It said it wanted to send an IAEA team to the site immediately to discuss  implementing the checks.
In Washington, a US official who declined to be named said North Korea  might already have acquired plutonium for nuclear weapons.
He said it would take weeks for inspectors to monitor the reactor  defuelling.
North Korea said last weekend it would remove the exhausted fuel rods from  the reactor at the Yongbyon nuclear complex, 90 kilometers (54 miles) north of  Pyongyang, but it was not until Thursday that officials confirmed that the  process had begun.
"I think it would be an error for North Korea to continue to thwart these  inspections after they have agreed to comply with them," US President Bill  Clinton said Thursday, declining to comment further.
US Defense Secretary William Perry said Wednesday that his government  faced "a very substantial near-term crisis" with North Korea.
The fuel rods contain enough plutonium for four or five nuclear bombs,  according to Pentagon estimates.
South Korea, meanwhile, warned it would discuss steps for sanctions with  the international community if North Korea continued to defy the IAEA.
But the government would draw up detailed countermeasures only after  determining North Korea's attitude to the agency's telex, officials there said.
"We expect that North Korea will respond to the IAEA proposal soon. And we  will decide ways to cope with the problem as soon as North Korea announces its  answer," said Kim Hyung-Ki, a spokesman at the South Korean unification  ministry spokesman.
Unification Minister Lee Hong-Koo told the meeting that the prospect for a  negotiated settlement is not "totally pessimistic," the spokesman said.
"The IAEA expressed its position to Pyongyang, and now what is important  is North Korea's choice," Lee was quoted as saying.
