Herewith the full text of the details of  President Bill Clinton's decision to renew China's most favored nation (MFN)  status Thursday, as released by the White House:
I: Policy Decisions
The President today announced the following decisions regarding our policy  toward China and most favored-nation status:
1. Renew most favored nation status for China.
2. Delink MFN renewal from human rights issues, other than the statutory  requirement of Jackson-Vanik.
3. Impose a ban on the import of Chinese munitions, consisting chiefly of  arms and ammunition, projected to total approximately 200 million dollars in  1994.
4. Maintain the existing Tiananmen sanctions (the denial of participation  in the US Trade and Development Assistance Program, OPIC and the US-Asia  Environment Partnership Program; continued US opposition to non-basic human  needs loans to China by the World Bank and other multilateral development  banks; suspension of weapons deliveries; and denial of licenses for dual-use  civilian technology and US munition list items).
5. Implement a vigorous, multi-faceted human rights policy to achieve  continued progress.
II: The New Human Rights Strategy
The new strategy builds upon existing components of US policy, including  continuation of Tiananmen economic sanctions and our bilateral human rights  dialogue with the Chinese government. The following additional steps will also  be taken:
1. Statement of Business Principles. Leaders of the American business  community, whose activities in China already contribute to both an economic  and political liberalization, will be asked to work with the administration to  develop a voluntary set of principles regarding the activities of American  business firms to advance human rights in China.
2. Increased International Broadcasting. The administration will step up  efforts to insure that the Chinese people are fully informed about  developments in China and throughout the world. The Voice of America will  increase its radio broadcasts to China and will inaugurate television  programming via satellite to China which will report on political developments  in China. We will inaugurate Radio Free Asia.
3. Expanded Multilateral Agenda. The administration will seek, to the  degree possible, to multilateralize efforts to improve the human rights  situation in China and other countries, including putting human rights on the  agenda of a variety of international fora. In addition, the administration  will seek to turn the attention of UN rapporteurs concerned with human rights  on the situation in China and step up its efforts, in cooperation with other  states, to insist that the UN Human Rights Commission pass a resolution  dealing with the serious human rights abuses in China.
4. Support for NGOS in China. The United States will encourage and support  the many new private organizations springing up in China and working, mostly  at the local level, to express their views on a range of subjects including  human rights. This support, where legal and appropriate, will generally be  provided by American NGOs.
