PLO chairman Yasser Arafat's reported call for  holy war to liberate Jerusalem throws into doubt the whole peace process,  Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin warned on Tuesday.
"If it is confirmed, it's a serious violation of the written commitments  and calls into question the peace process," Rabin said.
"Israel will not accept such violations and continue the process," he  warned at a press conference with US Secretary of State Warren Christopher.
The secretary said he "endorsed" Rabin's statement.
Arafat urged Moslems to launch a holy war or Jihad to liberate Jerusalem  from Jewish rule, according an audio tape broadcast by Israeli state radio.
"You have to come and to fight and to start the Jihad to liberate  Jerusalem, your first shrine," Arafat urged Moslems in the tape recording of a  speech he gave in a mosque in Johannesburg on May 10.
Arafat pledged an end to violence in letters exchanged between the two  countries in early September.
The radio said journalists were not allowed to attend the Johannesburg  address, but it had obtained a recording from the South African Jewish  community.
"The Jihad will continue and Jerusalem is not for the Palestinian people,  it is for all the Moslem umma (nation)," Arafat said in English.
"You are responsible for Palestine and for Jerusalem before me. You have  to understand our meaning ... our main battle is Jerusalem. The first shrine  of the Moslems."
The PLO leader claimed he had held up the May 4 signing ceremony in Cairo  of the autonomy implementation agreement because he wanted the fate of  Jerusalem included.
"And for this I was insisting before signing to have a letter from them,  the Israelis, that Jerusalem is one of the items which has to be under  discussion.
"I was insisting on Jerusalem."
Rabin said: "There is no such letter by me or any Israeli."
After the ceremony in Cairo, Israeli officials said Arafat had refused to  initial a map outlining the size of the Jericho enclave.
Israel has declared Jerusalem its united, eternal capital since conquering  the Arab eastern sector from Jordan in the 1967 Middle East war.
Arafat said on the tape that Jerusalem was "not their capital, it is your  capital." He repeatedly stressed the importance of holding talks on the fate  of Jerusalem within three years.
The September 13 Declaration of Principles for autonomy outlines that  negotiations on a final settlement, including Jerusalem, refugees and Jewish  settlements, will take place after two years of autonomy.
