Haitians responded with resignation Sunday  to a total commercial embargo imposed at midnight by the United Nations to  step up the pressure on the military to reliquish power.
The embargo, which excludes food and medicine, came on top of a nine-month  old embargo on arms and oil, which has been easily circumvented by smugglers  operating from the neighboring Dominican Republic.
The United Nations had given the Haitian military leadership 15 days to  resign before imposing the total embargo, the latest step in a nearly three  year international effort to restore to power ousted President Jean-Bertrand  Aristide.
"I am hostage to the situation and I am organizing myself to survive,"  said a merchant, summing up reactions gathered by AFP shortly after the latest  sanctions took effect.
Port-au-Prince was abuzz with activity up to the last minute Saturday.  Shippers hustled to move out hundreds of containers loaded with merchandise  from orders placed months ago before the deadline.
The embargo calls for all shipments, save food, medicine, cooking fuel and  humanitarian aid, to halt. The UN Security Council also has banned visas for  members of the military and ordered a freeze on their assets overseas.
On the Haitian-Dominican Republic border, contraband of fuel has continued  to flow unabated despite US efforts to get the Dominican government to enforce  the sanctions.
"I think it's premature to discount the effectiveness of these tough new  sanctions," said US Vice President Al Gore Sunda in an interview with CBS  television.
He added the United States is discussing with the Dominican Republic how  to secure the border.
"We want to plug those leaks and we're undertaking measures to do that,"  said Gore. He said he would not describe the US effort as "threatening" the  Dominicans to comply.
Though the international community is targeting Haitian leaders, many  observers are concerned these latest sanctions and those previously imposed  will only make things worse for the man on the street.
Estimates place the number of unemployed at 200,000 due to the sanctions,  which first began in 1991 with an embargo imposed by the Organization of  American States. Unemployment has reached 60 percent in Haiti.
Humanitarian and religious groups report more than six thousand people  have died since the sanctions took hold, most notably women, infants, elderly  and the sick.
