Asian-Americans have long been viewed as an  affluent minority, but many live in poverty and face obstacles that may  eventually drive them from the country, said a study released Wednesday.
"Unwarranted and simplistic conclusions are drawn from a few census  indicators to label Asian Pacific Americans, in monolithic terms, as a  successful or model minority group," said Don Nakanishi, director of the UCLA  Asian-American Studies Center which contributed to the report.
"The State of Asian Pacific America" found that for every Asian-American  household with an annual income of 75,000 dollars or more, there is roughly  another earning below 10,000 dollars.
Additionally, the percentage of Asian-Americans living below the poverty  line is about one-and-a-half times greater than that of whites, according to  the study sponsored by the Leadership Education for Asian Pacifics.
Many Asians who came to the United States after World War II stayed on   after getting their educations and now hold a disproportionate number of  high-income jobs, particularly in the areas of science and technology.
Today, while they represent three percent of the US population,  Asian-Americans hold seven percent of the scientific and engineering jobs, the  report notes.
"There is no doubt that Asian Pacific Americans have produced some  astonishing success stories," said Congressman Norman Mineta, who introduced  the report, "but those numbers hide a much more complex story."
Asian-Americans -- who now number 7.2 million and are expected to grow to  20 million by 2020, according to the study -- cover a wide range of the  socio-economic spectrum.
The study found that the fastest growing segment of those on welfare are  Southeast Asians and that in the big US cities some 50 percent of  Asian-Americans are receiving assistance.
Mineta said that welfare programs fail to address the special needs of  Asian-Americans in the areas of language and job training and called for more  funds and welfare reforms that target that population.
Some have argued that Asian-Americans have also been the most upwardly  mobile of US minorities, but the report's authors said that that trend has  slowed and that programs designed to end aid dependency are proving less  effective.
Paul Ong, who co-authored the study, also said that those areas where  Asian Americans are living below the poverty line have the highest employment  rates.
"But jobs are not enough," he said, adding that limited education and poor  English trap Asians in low-wage positions where they do not have the time or  the money to improve their skills.
And on the other end of the employment spectrum, "glass ceilings" keep  Asian-Americans from reaching the top in the areas of medicine and high  technology.
"While research and development positions have been plentiful, Asian  Pacific Americans are markedly scarce in management positions," said the  report, which warned that a "reverse brain drain" could draw away the talent  that has boosted the US edge in those fields.
South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore have enlisted headhunters in  California's Silicone Valley to lure Asian-American professionals back to  those countries, which now have the economic base to support them, according  to Ong.
Ong also said discrimination and a growing anti-immigrant sentiment in the  United States could also drive away Asian-Americans who can afford to leave.
"We recognize that public policy should not be based solely on staking a  claim to public resources and programs," said Ong, who argued that providing  fair employment and better assistance to Asian-Americans was vital to keeping  the United States globally competitive.
