The US government has acknowledged that it may  impose limited sanctions on Beijing to express displeasure over its human  rights record, rather than carry out its threat to withdraw entirely China's  privileged trade status.
"It's not all or nothing," a senior US official told reporters in  Jerusalem during a Middle East trip by Secretary of State Warren Christopher.
But he added that "the practicality of this range of alternatives is  something we must assess," refusing to elaborate.
President Bill Clinton has to decide by June 3 whether China has met the  human rights conditions he set last year for renewing its most favored nation  trading status (MFN).
Clinton had threatened to revoke China's MFN if the conditions were not  met, but less than three weeks away from the deadline US officials are still  saying that while Beijing has made progress in some areas, it is looking for  more actions in others.
There has been much talk among members of Congress and elsewhere in recent  weeks that rather than put in jeopardy a 40 billion dollar trade relationship  and an estimated 160,000 US jobs or more by withdrawing MFN, Clinton could go  for targeted sanctions -- for example by hitting the state-owned sector.
Such a compromise formula, however, has been criticised both by the human  rights lobby, which says Clinton must stick to his threat if China has not  made the required human rights progress, and the business lobby, which says  this would have the same ultimate effect as outright withdrawal.
"There are a number of different versions of targeted sanctions" but they  would all put US commercial interests at risk because of the risk of Chinese  retaliation, said Richard Brecher of the US-China Business Council, which  represents some 250 US companies doing business in China.
Targeted sanctions aimed at the state sector would not work because "we  buy from the non-state sector in China ... we sell to state enterprises in  China," Brecher said.
"It is just ludicrous to think that a more effective alternative to MFN  withdrawal would be a surgical strike against the people who are our  customers."
Another problem with targeted sanctions is the difficulty of implementing  them.
As Washington has already found in its efforts to keep prison  labor-produced goods out of the US market, it is virtually impossible to  verify whether Chinese goods are produced by prison labor without Beijing's  cooperation.
But Clinton is mired in a mess of his own making, the result of a campaign  pledge to be tough on China over human rights, and his decision last year to  identify seven areas where China must make significant progress to maintain  its MFN status.
There seems to be general agreement within the administration that no such  specific conditions will be set in the future, but Clinton needs to find a way  to get past June 3 this year that he can sell to his own supporters.
Senate Majority leader George Mitchell said in a television interview  Sunday that he favored "some sanctions" against China if it failed to meet  Clinton's conditions by June 3.
And Clinton faces the embarrassing prospect of legislation in Congress  calling for tougher action against Beijing if he fails to satisfy his own  Democratic majority.
Describing the current human rights situaton in China, the US official  said in Jerusalem Tuesday there had been "some important progress."
These include a new agreement on prison labor which human rights groups  have dismissed as largely symbolic and an agreement by China to at least  listen to US complaints that it is jamming Voice of America radio broadcasts.
But, the official added, "There's been some negative developments that  need to be put into the mix."
The Chinese government has recently released some opposition members, but  has also increased repressive measures against its critics.
