British authorities reported an oil slick 10  kilometers long (six miles) in the English Channel Sunday following a  collision between two cargo ships, but insisted it was not a hazard.
The slick 32 kilometers (20 miles) off the Dover coast is dissipating and  is "unlikely to be serious," the Dover coast guard said in a statement.
The service said the slick had broken up into "three fairly small  pockets," the largest of which was 10 kilometers (six miles) long and 500  meters (yards) wide. The other two were several hundred meters (yards) long,  it added.
It was not immediately clear if the oil was from the cargo of one of the  ships or their fuel.
The collision Saturday involved the Taiwanese container ship Ming Fortune,  which was carrying dangerous substances including petroleum products and acid,  and the Panamanian vessel Ariake which was carrying fruit.
No one was injured in the accident, which occurred in thick fog in French  territorial waters.
Eight containers that fell off the Ming Fortune were floating in the  channel Sunday, and three of them contain chemicals, French maritime  authorities said.
The metal containers, which weigh between five and 10 tonnes, have been  spotted from helicopters but have yet to be recovered, the French maritime  emergency centre reported in the town of Cap Gris-Nez.
An alert was broadcast for ships in the region to watch out for the  containers. Nearly 700 vessels, one every two minutes, sail through the area  every day, the service said.
The Ming Fortune had been reported Saturday as being in danger of sinking  but the French authorities said the vessel had been saved and would be towed  to Le Havre Sunday night or Monday.
The other ship was towed to Rotterdam in the Netherlands on Sunday by two  British tug boats.
It was the fifth such accident in the Channel or North Sea in five years.
In December of last year thousands of bags of pesticide from a container  ship washed up on beaches on France's Normandy coast.
