Thousands of rotting bodies of victims of Rwanda's  bloodbath have washed up on the shores of Lake Victoria, forcing Uganda to  declare the area a disaster zone, state radio reported Monday.
Because of the risk of epidemics from the bleached and decomposing bodies  floating in the lake or lying on the shore, Uganda's government has declared  parts of three southwestern districts near the Rwandan border disaster areas.
About 27,000 mutilated and dismembered corpses have washed ashore in  Uganda in the past three weeks in a grim reminder that Rwanda's six-week-old  ethnic bloodbath, in which up to half a million people have been butchered,  most in machete attacks, is spilling on, Radio Uganda said.
Lakeshore residents and aid workers have buried most of the bodies, which  floated down the Akagera river into the lake, in mass graves.
Thousands of Ugandans gathered on the lakeside at Kasensero landing site  Sunday to pray for the victims of Rwanda's genocide before burying more than  100 bodies in a huge pit filled with the overpowering stench of death.
"The acts of genocide in Rwanda should be condemned, investigated and  perpetrators brought to book," Uganda's External Security Director Colonel  Kahinda Otafire said in an emotional speech that moved the crowd to tears.
"Unfortunately, most of them will never been known as the would-be  witnesses are buried here for ever with their secrets," Otafire said.
The Ugandan government has appealed for international aid to help clean up  corpses in the southwestern districts of Masaka, Rakai and Kalangala.
Rwanda's interim government accuses Uganda of arming and backing the rebel  Rwanda Patriotic Front which invaded Rwanda from Uganda in 1991.
Many of the estimated 500,000 Rwandans slaughtered were minority Tutsis or  opposition supporters from the majority Hutu tribe, massacred by extremist  Hutu militias.
Tutsis, who form about 15 percent of Rwanda's population, dominate the  rebel movement fighting the Hutu-led government forces.
