Ukraine ordered the takeover of police  forces in the Crimean peninsula Thursday in what local officials charged was a  military coup against the leadership of the Russian-speaking region.
Valery Kuznetsov, Crimea's acting interior minster, told a session of the  local parliament that Ukrainian Deputy Interior Minister Valentin Nedrigailo  had presented him with a decree signed by President Leonid Kravchuk and  ordering the takeover.
"A military coup d'etat is underway", Kuznetstov said after the Kiev  official arrived with a group of 15 elite troops from the Ukrainian interior  ministry.
Russia's Interfax news agency quoted the Ukrainian interior ministry as  confirming that Kravchuk had issued a decree placing Crimean police forces  under Kiev's control.
The decree reportedly appointed new officials to the posts of Crimean  security chief and head of interior forces in the autonomous republic.
But the Crimean parliament reacted by voting to name Kuznetsov as Crimean  interior minister and appointing its own candidate as security minister.
The ITAR-TASS news agency quoted sources from the Black Sea fleet, based  in the Crimean port of Sevastopol, as saying that 1,000 elite troops and  members of the national guard had arrived overnight in two airfields near the  city.
But the Ukrainian defence ministry categorically denied the report, saying  it was a "provocation aimed at worsening the political situation on the  peninsula and fueling anti-Ukrainian hysteria".
Ukrainian security services said about 15 troops arrived overnight at the  military airport in Belbek, near Sevastopol, and that they were simply  accompanying Nedrigailo on his trip.
Kiev's toughened stand came as Crimean lawmakers prepared to reinstate a  1992 amendment to the republic's constitution stipulating that relations  between the central government and Crimea were to be governed by treaties.
Such a decision is viewed by Kiev as tantamount to a declaration of  independence.
In a message sent to Crimean lawmakers, Kravchuk warned that restoring the  constitutional provisions "would imply a revision of the fundamental  principles governing relations between Ukraine and its integral part, Crimea,"  news agencies reported.
"Violations of these principles could lead to conflict," Kravchuk said.
The heightened tensions between Kiev and Crimea come ahead of presidential  elections in Ukraine, scheduled for June 26, which Kravchuk is expected to  lose and is demanding be postponed.
They also coincides with the election on Wednesday of a serious political  rival to Kravchuk, conservative Alexander Moroz, to the influential post of  speaker of the Ukrainian parliament.
Moroz has said he views the speaker's post as a springboard to the  presidency.
Kravchuk spokesman Viktor Stelmakh meanwhile said the Ukrainian president  spoke with Russian President Boris Yeltsin by phone about the crisis, saying  that "Ukraine would take measures that are in line with the constitution to  maintain its territorial integrity."
A Kravchuk aide, who asked not to be named, meanwhile said Kiev was also  in consultations with the Russia, the United States and Crimean officials on a  controversial plan to impose presidential rule in Crimea.
Nikolai Mikhalchenko, a government official responsible for domestic  policy, said Kravchuk would not introduce a state of emergency in Crimea  without the support of the Ukrainian parliament, Interfax reported.
About two-thirds of the population of Crimea are Russian speakers.
The peninsula was part of Russia until former Soviet leader Nikita  Krushchev handed over the territory to Ukraine in 1954 as a "gift" celebrating  the friendship between the two Slav peoples.
The region has stepped up its drive for reunification with Russia since  the election in January of a Russian nationalist, Yuri Meshkov, as Crimea's  president.
