Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who struggled to live  a normal life despite being the widow of a glamorous president and of a Greek  shipping magnate, died Thursday surrounded by family and friends, according to  a statement from a family friend Nancy Tuckerman. She was 64 years old.
The former first lady died at her Fifth Avenue apartment, in Manhattan, at  10:15 p.m. (0215 GMT) after losing a battle with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Her daughter Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg and son John F. Kennedy, Jr.,  were
at her bedside when she died, along with a longtime friend Maurice  Tempelsman.
A large crowd of mourners gathered on the street outside her apartment  building despite a light rain.
President Bill Clinton said in Washington that he and his wife, Hillary,  had been given regular updates on Onassis' condition and had spoken with her  over the past few days.
"She's been quite wonderful to my wife, to my daughter (Chelsea) and to  all of us," Clinton said.
Onassis had refused antiobiotics for pneumonia and suffered from cancer  that had spread to her liver and brain, the New York Times reported in  Friday's editions quoting a health care provider.
Tuckerman would say only that she had stopped all medications.
Onassis revealed in February that she had non-Hodgkins lymphoma. The  former first lady also underwent surgery for a bleeding ulcer in April.
Onassis, widow of slain US president John F. Kennedy and of Greek shipping  magnate Aristotle Onassis, checked in Monday at New York Hospital-Cornell  Medical Center.
The hospital said she was suffering from "serious complications of her  malignant lymphoma."
She left a hospital Wednesday after deciding doctors could do nothing more  for her.
"She's home, she's comfortable and she has family around her. There was  nothing more to do for her at the hospital and she wanted to go home," said  Tuckerman when she went home. "It is just another phase of her illness which  she's facing with great fortitude."
"In accordance with the patient's clearly expressed wishes and with the  concurrence of her physicians, she has been discharged home," the hospital  said in a statement.
Monsignor George Bardes of St. Thomas Moore's Roman Catholic church gave  her communion, heard her confession and administered the sacrament of  anointing the sick on Thursday, church spokeswoman Margaret Peet said.
Onassis, who signed a living will in February foregoing aggressive  treatment, slipped into a coma Thursday, the newspaper also said.
As recently as Sunday, she was photographed walking in Central Park.
Visitors to the canopied apartment building on Fifth Avenue included her  sister, Lee Radziwill Ross, and their half-brother Jamie Auchincloss.
Congressman Joseph Kennedy, son of the late Robert Kennedy, arrived with  flowers and candy. Onassis' niece Maria Shriver also visited.
Hours before the former first lady's death, Senator Edward Kennedy told  reporters that his sister-in-law was "enormously grateful to all the people  who have been kind enough to send her notes wishing her well.
An intensely private woman, Onassis shunned the spotlight following her  husband's assassination in Dallas in 1963 and her stormy second marriage to  Aristotle Onassis, a Greek shipping tycoon.
The most famous image of her is also the most painful: the young wife  leaning over her husband's slumped body seconds after an assassin's bullet  struck their open limousine in Dallas, Texas on November 22, 1963.
Long the prey of paparazzis and tabloids, who dubbed her "Jackie O,"  Onassis had fought fiercely over the years to protect her family's privacy and  to raise her children to be as normal as possible.
But, out of the limelight, she also made a career as a book editor, first  at Viking Press and then Doubleday, handling a dozen books a year of  non-fiction subjects such as ballet and the performing arts.
