Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis was buried next to  president John F. Kennedy in Arlington National Cemetery Monday, and was  eulogized as a devoted mother and reluctant icon.
Kneeling in prayer at her grave were her children Caroline Kennedy  Schlossberg, 36, and John Kennedy Jr., 33. The new grave was just steps away  from that of Onassis's slain husband and the eternal flame that Onassis  herself lit more than three decades ago.
President Bill Clinton offered the country's farewell "to this remarkable  woman whose life will forever glow in the lives of her fellow Americans."
"Whether she was soothing a nation grieving for a former president or  raising the children with the care and the privacy they deserved or simply  being a good friend, she seemed always to do the right thing in the right  way," Clinton said.
In keeping with Onassis' passion for privacy, the burial in the United  States' most hallowed resting place and her funeral earlier in New York's  Saint Ignatius Loyola Roman Catholic Church were family affairs.
But Americans watched on television as the former first lady's body was  brought to the historic cemetery overlooking the Potomac River outside  Washington.
Two images of Onassis are seared in the American mind: the 34-year-old  woman sitting next to John Kennedy when he was gunned down by a sniper in  Dallas in 1963, and the mother in a black veil who gently prompted her  two-year-old son to salute his father's coffin at Arlington Cemetery.
But Onassis loathed publicity and wanted nothing more than to bring up her  children in peace.
Senator Ted Kennedy, her slain husband's brother, recalled Onassis' words  about her husband: "They made him a legend, when he would have preferred to be  a man."
He added, "Jackie would have preferred to be just herself, but the world  insisted that she be a legend too."
Since Onassis' death of cancer Thursday night, hundreds of ordinary people  have held a vigil outside her Manhattan apartment.
On Monday morning in New York, they lined the streets near the church  where her funeral was attended by First Lady Hillary Clinton, friends and  members of the Kennedy and Bouvier families.
Ted Kennedy remembered his sister-in-law as the woman who "held us  together as a family and a country" in the traumatic days that followed  Kennedy's assassination in Dallas, Texas on November 22, 1963.
Kennedy Schlossberg read a poem by Edna St. Vincent Millay, "Memory of Cape  Cod," and Kennedy remembered his mother's "love of words, bonds of home and  family and her spirit of adventure."
"And so farewell, farewell," said her long-time companion, diamond  merchant Maurice Templesman.
Opera singer Jessye Norman sang Ave Maria during communion.
A black hearse bearing the Onassis coffin led a procession of limousines  from her Fifth Avenue apartment to the Park Avenue church where she was  christened.
The funeral was private, but US television networks filmed the arrival of  Onassis' casket to the church and broadcast the service live in audio. Cameras  and photographers were barred from the church.
Police closed the blocks around the church except to residents and kept  onlookers several blocks away behind barricades.
The service was in keeping with the intensely private life that Onassis  led in the years following the death in 1975 of her second husband, Greek  shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis.
Working in virtual anonymity as a book editor, she fought fiercely to keep  paparazzi at bay and raise her children out of the public eye.
The fascination she held for the public was evident in the outpouring of  sympathy and reminiscences about her style and sophistication and the role she  played in creating the aura of "Camelot" during Kennedy's White House years.
As First Lady, she championed the arts, charmed foreign leaders and  proudly showcased the history and traditions of the White House.
Born Jacqueline Bouvier on July 28, 1929, in Southampton, New York, to a  wealthy New York couple, she studied at Vassar and George Washington  University and worked briefly as the Inquiring Camera Girl for the Washington  Times-Herald newspaper.
Her early assignments included an interview with then Senator John  Kennedy, whom she married in September 1953.
During that 10-year marriage, she gave birth to two children who survived  into adulthood, Caroline and John, but suffered a miscarriage, a stillborn  birth and the death in 1963 of son Patrick after 39 hours.
