The Israeli army quit Gaza  City's central prison and military administration buildings on Monday and was  set to complete its withdrawal from the Palestinian self-rule areas by Tuesday.
After the pullout of Israeli troops, 150 Palestinian police took control  of the prison as hundreds of people celebrated outside and armed Fatah  activists fired off automatic weapons into the air.
Two members of the Palestinian authority to run self-rule, Zakaria al-Agha  and Freih Abu Meddein, meanwhile, moved into the city's military  administration buildings.
The head of the military administration in Gaza, General Duby Gazit, on  Sunday handed Abu Meddein the office keys.
The last Israeli troops held onto the military government headquarters,  the passport and official documents department, police headquarters, police  barracks and Hof military camp.
Israel should wind up its redeployment on the Gaza Strip on Monday night,  completing its pullout from the Strip and West Bank town of Jericho, a senior  Palestinian police official told AFP.
"By Tuesday, there will not be any Israeli left in Gaza City, the last  place among the self-rule areas where they are still present," he said.
Paving the way for its withdrawal from Gaza, the Israeli army erected late  on Sunday traffic signals warning drivers in English and Hebrew that they are  heading for the self-rule area.
"Attention! You are entering the Palestinian authority jurisdiction.  Entrance must be coordinated with the IDF," or Israeli army, it read.
To mark its withdrawal, the army will Tuesday hold a ceremony in its new  headquarters at the Gush Katif Jewish settlement bloc, in the south of the  Strip, an army spokesman said.
Israeli and Palestinian representatives will officially sign the same day  the agreement on a handover of civilian powers, Palestinian negotiator Freij  al-Kheiri said.
At PLO headquarters in Tunis, a Palestinian source said fellow peace  negotiators Hassan Asfur, Jibril Rajjub and Mohammad Dahlan were on their way  to Gaza and Jericho to take up their duties in the self-rule administration.
They were to arrive Tuesday.
Overnight Sunday, 450 police arrived in Gaza from Egypt, according to a  spokesman at the Palestinian police headquarters.
So far, 2,050 troops of the Palestine Liberation Army have entered the Gaza  Strip and Jericho in line with the May 4 deal to launch autonomy in the two  areas.
Under the agreement, a total of 9,000 Palestinian police will be deployed.
The Palestinian police commander in Jericho, General Hajj Ismail, called  Monday for "Arab and international support" to the self-rule areas, where 27  years of Israeli occupation had "totally destroyed" the infrastructure.
In Cairo, Palestinian officials said 176 police vehicles donated by the  United States had arrived in Port Said and were being taken from Egypt to Gaza  and Jericho.
