The United States said Wednesday it would  continue efforts to prise open markets in Japan and China amid suggestions  here that the new World Trade Organisation (WTO) take a bigger role in  policing trade.
US Assistant Trade Representative Ira Wolf said that while Washington had  not dropped its commitment to lead the fight for open markets, Japan and China  should also play a responsible role.
"The time has come for all nations to take advantage of the global economy  to accept responsibility for contributing to the success of the trading system  by opening their markets," he told a business opportunities conference here.
New Zealand Prime Minister Jim Bolger, speaking earlier, said the WTO,  which will replace the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), should  be empowered to ensure countries do not break or modify commitments made under  the Uruguay Round.
"New Zealand is among countries wishing to see the WTO built on the widest  possible inclusiveness," he said, adding that this meant opening doors to  countries such as China and Vietnam.
The two-day conference, organised by the New York-based Asia Society, has  attracted some 800 business and political leaders from 23 countries mostly  within the Asia-Pacific region.
Thai Deputy Premier Amnuay Viravan also backed calls for a bigger role for  the WTO, expected to be launched next year.
"I feel strongly that the WTO should have a role as a promoter of free  trade and as a policy coordinator and that it should not get caught up with  non-economic issues," Amnuay said.
Wolf said Washington was attempting to lay a "solid foundation" for trade  with China and expressed hope that differences over human rights would be  resolved to allow this.
"Our government is attempting to work out differences over human rights so  we can move forward together. We hope that effort will succeed," he said.
US President Bill Clinton has said he will not renew China's most favoured  nation (MFN) trade status next month unless Beijing shows "significant overall  progress" in improving its human rights record.
Washington's position has been criticised by many Asian countries worried  by the political and economic fallout of a non-renewal of China's trade  privileges.
Wolf said that while China had already improved rules for imports and  exports, and eliminated substantial numbers of tariff and non-tariff barriers,  it could still take more action to open markets.
He said China could do more to protect intellectual property rights, set  up a legal system that protects foreign and local businessmen alike and cut  tarifffs still prohibitively high.
Wolf said the US demand that Japan open its market would benefit all  potential suppliers of goods and services to the Japanese market.
"Every Asian economy represented here has proven high quality competitive  exports in agriculture, manufacturing and the services sectors that have found  buyers in the region and around the world but not in Japan," he said.
Wolf said such countries also knew more sales in Japan would result if  Tokyo's market access rules were eliminated.
"Unless we are both prepared to sholder this responsibility, Asia and the  world will lose the chance to realise gains in which we should all share, be  it trade, jobs or growth," he said.
Wolf said the United States hoped to restart stalled talks with Tokyo on  Japan's market opening measures before the next Group of Seven (G7) industrial  nations summit later this year.
