Bosnian Serbs fired at least seven shells at  Tuzla airport Tuesday after the first UN plane in a month landed, prompting  NATO warplanes to buzz the Moslem city in northeastern Bosnia.
The latest incident came as French Defence Minister Philippe Leotard  announced in Paris that France would withdraw more than a third of its 6,900  peacekeepers by the end of the year.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe had earlier this month evoked the  possibility of withdrawing all French forces if a concrete peace plan for  Bosnia failed to materialise.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation warplanes buzzed Tuzla at the UN's  request but did not open fire, UN Protection Force spokesman in Tuzla Jen Kirk  said.
The afternoon shelling of Tuzla airport did not leave casualties and the  aircraft was not damaged. UNPROFOR spokesman here Dacre Holloway said the  Ilyushin aircraft was able to take off safely and land at the Croatian port of  Split.
The plane was carrying a Jordanian battalion of specially trained UN  soldiers, along with US-made radar-tracking equipment due to be deployed in  Tuzla to monitor mortar trajectories.
The airport, in Moslem-controlled territory, was handed over to UN control  on March 22 after Russia persuaded the Bosnian Serbs surrounding the giant  runway to allow the airlifting of humanitarian aid into the region.
Since then 22 planes have landed at Tuzla, all of them carrying equipment  for peacekeepers. The last flight prior to Tuesday had been on April 14.
The Serb news agency SRNA reported that "fierce fighting" was underway  some 20 kilometres (12 miles) east of Tuzla after the mainly Moslem Bosnian  army seized the Stolice television transmitter last week.
Concerning France's decision to pull out troops from the Serb-dominated  region of Krajina in Croatia, and from the Moslem "safe area" of Bihac if a  peace breakthrough was not forthcoming, a senior French military official said  French forces would now "regroup and concentrate" on Sarajevo.
The French move came as British Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind said  Bosnia's warring factions should "not take the presence of the UN forces for  granted."
Interviewed on BBC radio on France's decision to cut its troop presence,  Rifkind refused to be drawn on when London might begin to withdraw its  soldiers. Britain's 3,300 troops stationed in the former Yugoslavia make up  the second-largest UN contingent.
Rifkind said Britain understood and sympathised with the French position  and added the two countries were in "permanent contact" on the troops issue.  But he said that did not mean London would necessarily follow Paris' example.
France has already lost more than 20 of its soldiers caught up in the  conflict, while some 300 others have been injured.
UN mediator Lord Owen said in Belgrade meanwhile that Bosnia's warring  factions could be close to reaching a ceasefire. Owen, co-chairman of the  Geneva peace conference on former Yugoslavia, said there were "still some  difficulties" regarding the eastern Moslem town of Gorazde, but said he  expected these to be ironed out within 24 hours.
He made the statement after talks with Serbian President Slobodan  Milosevic, saying their meeting had concentrated on the "most important  priority" -- ending the fighting.
An attempt at mediation by Russian Patriarch Aleksy II was cold-shouldered  Tuesday by the leader of the Bosnian Moslem community, Mustafa Ceric.
Aleksy had arrived in Pale, capital of the Bosnian Serbs near Sarajevo, on  a peace mission to unite Bosnia's warring factions.
But the Bosnian embassy in Zagreb said Ceric had rejected the partiarch's  invitation to attend peace talks with the leaders of the country's three  communities "because he does not wish to meet the head of a church which  supports aggression."
