The European Court of Justice (ECJ) on  Wednesday ruled invalid a European Commission refusal to investigate an  alleged cartel resulting from quota limits on Japanese car exports to Britain.
The European consumer organisation BEUC hailed the decision as a "major  victory" which could result in a fine on the British motor industry for  operating a cartel against the public interest.
Officials said the European Union's executive would probably have to  reconsider its refusal to investigate the quota as a possible violation of EU  competition law.
In 1991 BEUC asked the commission to investigate a longstanding quota  accord between the British Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders and the  Japanese Automobile Manufacturers Association.
It fixed a quota for the number of Japanese car imports allowed into  Britain -- 11 percent of the British market.
The commission turned down the request, mainly on the grounds that the  quota accord was about to be superceded by an agreement between Japan and the  EU to limit car exports into the union between 1993 and 1999.
The ECJ's Court of First Instance ruled that the commission had not  properly justified its refusal.
BEUC spokesman Jean-Paul Pritchard said the court decision could lead  eventually to similar challenges against national quotas on imports of  Japanese cars in France, Spain, Italy and Portugal in force until 1993.
He added that BEUC would also be looking at the possibility of challenging  the EU-Japanese auto agreement in the light of the court's statement that the  accord had no legal standing, being merely a political consensus.
"BEUC is totally opposed to all restrictions on car sales because they are  anti-competitive and drive prices up," Pritchard said.
Under EU pressure, Japan agreed in the early 1990's to monitor its car  exports to the EU and restrict its market penetration between 1993 and 1999,  after which all restrictions would end.
The court argued that restrictions on the imports of Japanese cars into  Britain under the agreement might be incompatible with EU competition law, if  the number of cars imported turned out to be similar to the pre-1993 quotas.
