Rwandan rebels were Saturday closing in on  Gitarama, the base of Rwanda's self-proclaimed government, as mortar shells  landed near a hospital run by the Red Cross in Kigali, a UN spokesman said.
Intermittent artillery duels, between the mainly Tutsi Rwandan Patriotic  Front (RPF) and government forces, raged in central Kigali after a lull  earlier in the day, spokesman Abdul Kabia said by telephone from Kigali.
The rebel fighters were advancing southwards from the capital towards the  town of Gitarama where the interim government is based.
Government officials fled to Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25 miles) south of  Kigali, after the RPF turned its offensive towards the capital a month ago.
Heavy fighting was also reported around the northern town of Ruhengeri,  Kabia added.
Several mortar rounds landed near the International Committee of the Red  Cross hospital in central Kigali, but there were no casualties or damage. It  was not clear which side fired the shells, Kabia said.
UN troops evacuated another 695 civilians from the rebel-besieged capital  to safer areas on the outskirts, Kabia said.
The evacuees included 332 Tutsi holed up at Hotel Mille Collines for  several weeks and 363 Hutus who had taken refuge at the Amahoro stadium.
About 245 displaced people remained in the hotel and 5,500 at the stadium,  Kabia added. Some 480 people were moved from Kigali on Friday.
Government troops and Hutu militias have abandoned several positions as  RPF fighters tightened their grip on the capital.
Rwanda plunged back into tribal bloodletting after Hutu President Juvenal  Habyarimana was killed in an alleged rocket attack on his plane on April 6.
An estimated 200,000 to half a million people have been killed. Some  500,000 others have fled the country.
Many of the victims came from the Tutsi minority or were moderate members  of the majority Hutu tribe, massacred by extremist Hutu militias.
The RPF launched an offensive against government troops and Hutu militia in  an attempt to stop the massacres and grab power from the Hutu-dominated  government.
Meanwhile, Kenyan officials said the heads of state of Kenya, Tanzania,  Uganda and Zaire will meet in the Kenyan capital on June 6, to discuss the  Rwandan crisis.
The meeting is being convened by Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi.
Moi told a gathering in the central district of Muranga on Friday that  neighbouring countries should not "sit back" and watch mass killings in the  central African state without taking action.
