A strain of deadly mutant bacterium that destroys  human flesh and can kill in hours has claimed a seventh life in Britain, it  was confirmed Wednesday.
The latest victim reported was a 58-year-old housekeeper who died of the  gangrene-like infection last month at her home in West Sussex, southeast  England, health officials said.
Robert Lapraik, head of St Richard's Hospital in Chichester, where a  post-mortem was done on the woman, confirmed the cause of death as the  disease, necrotizing fasciitis.
He said the victim had contracted the infection "in the community," but  did not elaborate.
Experts said the infection eats its way through living human tissue,  turning it gangrenous, and can cause death within hours.
They said it was believed to be caused by a strain of streptococcus-A  bacteria that may have undergone genetic mutation through viral attack.  Streptococcus-A is a usually harmless organism that lives in the throats of  about 10 percent of the population.
A woman in her mid-20s died suddenly on Tuesday after doctors believed  they had cured her of the infection she contracted after giving birth by  Caesarean section.
Her death at Queen Mary's University Hospital in southwest London came as  government ministers and health officials were seeking to allay public fears  of contagion.
A statement from Queen Mary's said the woman had been transferred from  another hospital for "further management of wound problems."
"From a surgical point, the patient had been completely cured of the  infection and was to be discharged tomorrow," it said. "Sadly, she died  suddenly."
Three people were known to have died in Gloucestershire, where three  others were saved by surgury and a seventh -- a 45-year-old woman -- was still  in serious condition Wednesday.
The two other deaths were in Essex and south London earlier in the year.
Norman Begg, deputy director of the Public Health Laboratory Services  Communicable Diseases Surveillance Centre, said all suspected cases of the  killer infection were being followed up in a nationally coordinated  investigation.
"At the moment we've got no evidence that this particular disease, or  indeed other infections due to streptoccocus, is increasing in the country at  the moment," he told BBC Radio.
He said the seven-case "cluster" in the Gloucester area was statistically  unusual, but stressed that laboratory analysis of the cases showed they were  of different streptococcal strains.
Similarly unexplained increases in incidence of the disease in a single  area had in the past been reported in the United States, Australia and the  Middle East, he said.
"As far as the general public is concerned there is no need for panic,"  said Begg. "Patients that do develop this condition do become very ill and GPs  (general practitioners) are not going to mis-diagnose them and fail to send  them to hospital."
Health experts told BBC television that general early symptoms of  necrotizing fasciitis included high fever, nausea, vomiting and severe  localized pain in the infected area.
As concern over the disease spread outside Britain, health officials in  New Zealand confirmed that one person had died there from the illness and two  others been affected by it over the last year.
But New Zealand's Health Ministry chief advisor Karen Poutasi said the  public should not be unduly alarmed by the publicity.
The form of bacterium was not new and while several cases had been  reported in New Zealand, the necrotising fasciitis strain was rare, she said.
"Doctors are aware of the possibility of this form of streptococcol  infection and people can make a full recovery with the proper treatment," she  said.
Hutt Hospital near Wellington confirmed it had successfully treated a  patient with the infection two months ago.
Wellington Hospital director of microbiology Mark Jones said he had seen  only about six to 10 cases in the last 10 years and there had been no  "cluster" of cases as in Britain.
