The parents of toddler James Bulger, beaten to  death by two schoolboys last year, Wednesday beseeched Home Secretary Michael  Howard to keep their son's killers jailed for life.
Denise and Ralph Bulger arrived at the Home Office in central London with  their five-month-old baby Michael, and bundles of petitions they said bore  282,000 signatures backing their plea.
Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, now 11, were tried and convicted of  murder last November.
Court testimony painted a gruesome picture of the crime, in which the  boys, then 10, snatched two-year-old James from under his mother's nose at a  busy Liverpool area shopping mall.
They dragged him through the city to a deserted stretch of railway track  where they beat and tortured him, smashing his head with clubs and leaving his  body on the tracks where it was cut in two by a freight train.
The trial judge told them they would spend "a very long time" in prison,  and a higher court subsequently recommended sentences of eight to 10 years,  but under British law the home secretary would ultimately decide.
The Bulger family objected loudly to the length of the recommended  sentences, saying the two should be jailed for life.
They became further infuriated when it was learned that an appeal had been  filed with the European Court of Human Rights on behalf of Thompson and  Venables challenging the home secretary's right to set their sentences.
"I am going to do everything I can, if it takes me for the rest of my  life, to keep those two behind bars because they aren't safe to walk the  streets," said Denise Bulger.
"We were gutted and shocked when we heard about the new appeal. Their  parents can go and visit their sons whenever they want but what can we see of  our James? A pile of stones with his photograph on them.
Thompson and Venables are being held at a secure youth facility at an  undisclosed location.
"Those boys have a better life than before, with video games and  everything, and I think it is wrong," said Denise Bulger. "I would just love  to get my hands on the two of them for five minutes."
After the Bulgers met with a senior Home Office official, a family  spokesman said, "We were told that the Home Secretary is likely to make his  decision in the next couple of weeks.
"I asked whether the appeal being made to the European court would have  any bearing on Mr Howard's judgment and he said categorically that it would  not - which was a bit of good news for us."
