President-elect Bakili Muluzi vowed Thursday to  champion the rule of law, alleviate poverty and boost social services, after  defeating Hastings Kamuzu Banda in the country's first free elections.
However, he promised there would be no witch-hunt against outgoing ruler  Hastings Kamuzu Banda, who bowed out graciously Thursday in favour of Moslem  businessman Muzuli.
"We will not work on retribution," Muluzi told journalists at his first  press conference after defeating Banda, who has ruled Malawi since guiding the  country to independence from Britain 1964.
"He made mistakes here and there, but we will look after him," Muluzi said  of Banda, who is believed to be in his 90s. "He is an old man and nobody would  want to push him around."
Muluzi said his new government would champion the rule of law and create a  new culture of openess and transparency after Banda's autocratic rule.
The government's priorities would be to alleviate poverty, offer social  services and improve education, he added.
There was a serious land shortage in this tiny south-east African state,  he said, adding "we don't know how we will solve that, but we'll not go around  snatching land."
Muluzi said he was concerned that the election results had shown regional  divisions in voting.
"It is unfortunate. People were voting because Muluzi comes from the  south, Banda from the centre and so on. We are all one and should avoid that,"  he said.
"Malawi is one country and there is no way we can afford to regionalise  ourselves."
He said he had not discussed with his shadow cabinet plans for a  coalition government with Chakufwa Chihana's Alliance for Democracy, which won  all 33 parliamentary seats in its northern region stronghold.
The UDF will need a coalition if final results show that it has failed to  gain an outright majority of the 177 parliamentary seats.
"I don't see any problem with that. We are Malawians. We need each other,"  Muluzi said. However, he ruled out a coalition with Banda's Malawi Congress  Party.
He said Chihana was his friend and "we have fought together to bring about  democracy." Muluzi is due to be installed as president on May 21.
The incoming head of state said his government would examine plans to give  Banda a pension, adding jokingly of the wealthy president: "We will give him  security and a car if he hasn't any."
Muluzi said Banda had telephoned him at around 11:00 p.m. (2100GMT)  Wednesday night to congratulate him on his victory in the elections Tuesday,  well before official results were out.
Banda also asked how long he could stay at the Sanjika Palace in Blantyre,  his favourite home since in was built with government funds in the 1970s at a  cost of around a million pounds sterling (1.5 million dollars at current  exchange rates).
Muluzi said he told Banda to stay in the palace as long as he wished,  adding he would like to reduce the number of official homes to one or two. "We  don't have enough money for all these state residences," he said.
