Businessman Bakili Muluzi's United Democratic  Front (UDF) took an early lead Wednesday in the first returns from Malawi's  landmark first democratic election, shaping up to oust veteran overlord Kamuzu  Banda.
Based on a very limited count so far in Malawi's 2,400 counting stations,  the UDF was ahead in the Mangochi and Zomba districts in the south of the  country, leading Banda's Malawi Congress Party and trade unionist and  pioneering reformer Chakufwa Chihana's Alliance for Democracy (AFORD).
Results were being broadcast on national radio throughout the night as  they became available -- Banda has not allowed television into the country.
Commonwealth observers in the capital Lilongwe told a news conference that  Malawians had been able to vote "freely for the candidate of their choice."
If Muluzi confirms his winning trend and defeats Banda, Chihana and an  also-ran candidate, he will bring a complete change of style to the presidency.
Banda, officially 88 but rumoured to be at least 93, has ruled Malawi  since independence from Britain in 1964 with a rod of iron.
He has surrounded himself with a sicophantic court and rituals worthy of  an absolute monarch, and has kept himself aloof from a people whose language  he does not speak.
He always wears a three-piece suit finished off with a top hat or a  bowler, relics of his 40 years abroad, mainly in Britain, where he was a  doctor.
President since Malawi became a republic on July 6, 1966, Banda proclaimed  himself President-for-Life five years later, and has left a stamp of fear on a  museum nation where women are not allowed to wear trousers and men are  forbidden to grow their hair long.
Muluzi is the antithesis, even in his failings. Jovial and chubby, Muluzi  is an unashamed populist who would never shy from a walkabout among his people  or from making extravagant election promises.
His detractors have dubbed him Muluzi Six Pounds and His Excellency the  Thief, alluding to the six-month jail sentence he served 25 years ago for  stealing six pounds sterling.
But it is water off a duck's back to Muluzi, who has all but erased the  memory of the six years he served in the Banda administration as one of the  outgoing president's aides.
He was briefly the education minister in 1976, and rose to the rank of  Secretary-General of Banda's MCP in 1983, before serving as vice-president of  Malawi's chamber of commerce.
He owns a road freight company and is president of the Malawi hauliers'  association.
Born 51 years ago in a small village near Machinga in the south of the  country, Muluzi has diplomas from English and Danish universities.
A Moslem, he is listed in his official biography as a politician, farmer,  businessman and educationist. He is married with two children.
He concentrated his campaign efforts on the densely populated and more  affluent south of the country.
His policies are vague, based on a catch-all fight against poverty, but he  uses top quality advisors, including UDF vice-president Aleke Banda, another  MCP defector.
