China's unyielding line towards US pressure on  human rights has brought it a major victory, enabling it to emerge from this  year's intense MFN battle with little more than a light rap on the knuckles.
By all but ignoring Bill Clinton's 1993 threat to withdraw  most-favoured-nation (MFN) status this year if it failed to make significant  human rights progress, China not only ensured renewal of the coveted trade  privilege.
It also forced the US president to make a humiliating policy U-turn and  boosted China's clout throughout Asia.
Clinton said Thursday he would delink trade from human rights in the  future, limiting punishment of China's intransigence to imposing a ban on  imports of Chinese guns and ammunition and retaining sanctions in place since  the 1989 Tiananmen massacre.
The munitions ban is estimated to be worth 200 million dollars, less than  one percent of China's 22-billion-dollar trade surplus with the United States.
"China made clear to the United States it would go ahead with its own way  of dealing with dissent and its domestic world with or without MFN," said a  diplomat here, maintaining that -- despite some "little grand gestures" --  China's overall human rights situation had deteriorated this year.
Beijing's decision to call Washington's bluff over MFN rested on the savvy  belief that the United States would never jeopardise a 40-billion-dollar a  year trade relationship and cause US companies to be blocked from the world's  fastest-growing market.
The extent of Beijing's confidence became apparent in March when it  humbled US Secretary of State Warren Christopher by launching a major sweep on  dissidents as he arrived here for talks with Chinese leaders.
"They made clear the more Clinton pushed, the more he would lose face,"  she said.
Diplomats here welcomed Clinton's decision to abandon his policy of  linking trade to human rights, saying any breakdown in Sino-US ties could have  had far-reaching repercussions for regional and international trade,  geo-political alignments and cooperation in multilateral forums.
However, they warned Beijing's success in facing-down Washington would also  have repercussions for China's handling of bilateral disputes in the future.
"China will become more bullish. The Chinese wanted a big victory over the  United States. This will raise their self-esteem and national pride and help  China's fledgling attempt to become a major regional power," said one  diplomat.
Chinese officials appeared smug over their victory Friday, with the  foreign ministry welcoming Clinton's move while urging the United States to go  further and lift all remaining sanctions on China.
Despite its success over MFN through intransigence, diplomats said however  that Beijing was aware that a more flexible approach was needed to resolve  trade disputes.
"The focus in Sino-US ties is now on commerce," he said, predicting that  China may well have promised Washington a number of concessions in this area  as a trade-off over MFN.
Beijing announced this week that it had slashed import licences and quotas  on 195 products, as agreed in a 1992 Sino-US agreement on market access.
Human rights groups meanwhile warned that Clinton's decision would give  China a free hand to abuse its citizen's rights, at a time when high  inflation, rising unemployment and the prospect of 89-year-old paramount  leader Deng Xiaoping's death are heightening concern about social stability.
However, diplomats -- while not discounting a crackdown in the run-up to  the fifth anniversary of the Tiananmen massacre -- disagreed that the move  would have much impact domestically, saying China had in any case done little  to influence the US decision.
"Three or four people benefitted, but in terms of overall human rights it  didn't have much impact," a diplomat said, urging Washington to find a  suitable forum for expressing it concerns on the issue more effectively.
