UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali  appealed Wednesday for social and economic development to be made a priority  across the globe.
"The concept of development and decades of effort to reduce poverty,  illiteracy, disease and mortality rates, are great achievements of this  century," he wrote in a 50-page "Agenda for development."
"Development as a common cause is in danger of fading from the forefront  of our agenda," he warned, two years after writing "Agenda for peace."
A side effect of the Cold War was that the industrial countries' rivalry  stimulated development.
"The motives were not always altruistic, but countries seeking to develop  could benefit from that interest," he wrote.
Now, the rich countries are not rushing to develop the poorer ones and  "evelopment is in crisis, Boutros-Ghali declared.
He said a deeper moral commitment and better policy is required now. His  plan is laid out in five chapters covering the areas he says are crucial to  maintaining development: peace, the economy, the environment, social justice  and democracy.
States are no longer the sole players in their own development, but they  continue to bear primary responsibility, Boutros-Ghali said.
The number of other major participants in a country's development  increases daily, he said, citing regional organizations, non governmental  organizations and the religious and academic communities, among others.
If a "culture of development" is to be created, then every action must be  considered in relation to development, Boutros-Ghali said.
"Based on this universal culture of development, which is rapidly evolving  in the closing years of the 20th century, the United Nations becomes an  increasingly effective forum for establishing universal standards of conduct,"  he said.
He decried the resistance of some countries to international cooperation  and their use of force and spheres of influence to achieve foreign policy  goals.
"This must not be allowed to happen," he stressed.
A new collective vision is needed and the "Agenda for development" is  "intended as the first contribution to the search for a revitalized vision of  development," he said.
(attention embargo)
