Northern troops loyal to Yemeni President Ali  Abdallah Saleh on Monday were pushing forward to capture the southern oil  province of Shabwa, a northern spokesman in Sanaa said.
The northern forces are also on the move on three other fronts to blockade  Vice-President Ali Salem al-Baid's stronghold of the southern port-city of  Aden, and force him and his followers to surrender.
Northern ground forces, including tanks and heavy artillery, were trying  to reach Aden in an pincer movement from the north, along the Sanaa-Aden road,  Zanjibar to the west, and Abyane to the east.
The spokesman said the fighting in Shabwa, 300 kilometers (180 miles)  northeast of Aden, is centered on northern attempts to capture the main city  of Ataq, and another town, Bayhan.
Baid's forces are using extensive air power to check the advancing troops,  including firing long range Scud missiles, the spokesman added.
A defeat for the southerners in Shabwa would deprive them of Massila oil  field revenues, set at 170,000 barrels per day. Massila's output is shipped by  pipeline to the southern port of Mukalla.
It would mean that all of Yemen's oil resources would be in the hands of  Saleh, since his troops already control the other key oil province of Maareb,  200 kilometers (120 miles) east of Sanaa. It produces 140,000 barrels per day.
Elswhere, the northern forces are trying to clear the way to the southern  Al-Anad air base, 50 kilometers (30 miles) north of Aden, defended by more  than 20,000 soldiers and militiamen.
A southern military commander on Sunday said the northern troops were  spotted 30 kilometres (18 miles) away from the base.
In Abyan, 55 kilometers (33 miles) east of Aden, the northern crack  brigade al-Amaliqa was trying capture the heights surrounding Aden.
The brigade commander, Colonel Ali al-Jaifi, said his forces were between  15 and 20 kilometers (nine and 13 miles) from the southern port.
The northern forces are also trying to drive their rivals from the coastal  road linking Aden to Kharaz, to the west.
Yemeni Foreign Minister Mohammad Al-Bassandawa, who is loyal to the  president, said that the northern forces want to blockade Aden to force the  surrender of Baid and his followers, but not to take the city, in order to  "save lives and facilities."
The southerners made a new ceasefire offer on Sunday, proposing a national  unity government.
The northern leadership has demanded that the southerners surrender before  halting fighting, which began almost two weeks ago.
