Under fire from a host of countries, Japan has  confirmed its decision to put the brakes on a controversial nuclear programme  that would expand creation of plutonium.
A report by the Japanese Atomic Energy Commission, published Thursday,  sketched a radical shift away from plutonium over the long term by postponing  fast-breeder reactors that generate the substance, and plants to recycle them.
"Japan has revised its programme to avoid international disapproval. It  was engaged on a programme of massive plutonium production of which it knew  the risks," said a western nuclear expert.
The commission's report said the plutonium option had not been abandoned.  But it said it had delayed development of a model fastbreeder reactor from the  late 1990s till the early 2000s and said the commercialisation of such  reactors would not take place before 2030.
It also delayed until 2010 a decision on conditions for commissioning a  second recycling plant currently under development.
The report calls for research into technology under which Japan would no  longer produce pure plutonium but develop a new combustible which combined  plutonium with other heavy radioactive substances such as americium, curium  and neptunium.
This would enable Japan to avoid international outcries about the dangers  of proliferation from stocking plutonium, the basic element used in making  atomic weapons.
In May the former director general of Japan's Defence Agency, Kazuo Aichi,  confirmed Tokyo's ability to make nuclear weapons but said the country had no  political will to do so.
"We do have the capabilities, and it's not helpful for us to deny those  capabilities. I can't think of any situation in which Japan would possess its  own nuclear weapons," he told journalists during a visit to the United States.
The commission's report should be approved in June and was not expected to  undergo any more changes before then, experts said.
Japan, along with France, is one of the few countries still engaged in a  nuclear programme with fastbreeder reactors in which more plutonium is  produced than consumed.
It has been abandoned by other industrialised countries because of its  complexity, cost and the risks involved. France has revised its options and  has authorised its Superphenix generator to be restarted only for scientific  and demonstration purposes.
Japan's first experimental fastbreeder reactor Monju, costing 5.8 billion  dollars, was commissioned on April 5 at Tsuruga, 350 kilometers (220 miles)  northwest of Tokyo.
Following US allegations earlier this month about the disappearance of 70  kilograms (154 pounds) of plutonium from Japan's first recycling plant at  Tokai-mura northeast of Tokyo, Japan has decided on a policy of openness.
The nuclear energy corporation has invited foreign journalists to visit  the factory on Friday. It will explain that the plutonium is still "stuck"  inside the plant's installations and its engineers are trying to recover it.
Paul Leventhal, head of the Nuclear Control Institute, a non-governmental  organisation based in the United States, said that the amount of plutonium was  enough to make nine atomic bombs.
