As Britain moves to arm London "bobbies" for the  first time, the Australian state of Victoria is considering moving in the  opposite direction after two shootings this week brought to 21 the number of  people shot dead by police in six years.
Police Minister Pat McNamara said Tuesday his government had also asked  the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the US Federal Bureau of Investigation  (FBI) to come here to review training procedures in the handling of firearms.
One of the latest victims was an unarmed teenager, accompanying a  45-year-old with a sawn-off shotgun on an armed hold-up at a suburban real  estate office on Monday, police said.
After four fatal police shootings already this year, the latest deaths  have prompted calls for a public inquiry into police training and use of  weapons.
A trigger-happy image has been underlined by the fact that the  neighbouring state of New South Wales, which has a slightly bigger and  seemingly no less violent population, has seen only four deaths in police  shootings during the period in which 21 have died in Victoria.
Police said Tuesday investigations into the incident would be conducted by  the state coroner and the police internal affairs section.
But the state Criminal Justice Coalition (CJC) immediately called for a  public inquiry into the latest deaths.
CJC spokesman Peter Norden, a Catholic priest, said the deaths reinforced  concerns about inappropriate use of deadly force by Victorian police officers.
"Unless there is a public and independent inquiry, the reputation of the  Victorian police force will be seriously threatened," said Norden, adding that  there was an obvious discrepancy between the incidence of fatal shootings in  two states.
McNamara, who announced a review of police firearms procedures in March  after earlier deaths, told reporters that following these assistance had been  sought from Canada and the United States.
"The Mounties have agreed to send an officer or officers over here to  review the training procedure in the handling of firearms and the FBI have  also agreed to have an overview of our training procedure," McNamara said.
A data base was also needed to see if there were factors contributing to  the level of violence in the state that necessitated police intervention, he  said.
"Issues such as cultural, social or historical differences between  Victoria and the other states which might account for the seeming disparity  between the number of fatal shootings by police here as against other states."
But he said some police could lose the right to carry guns as an outcome  of a review of police training and techniques.
"That's not something that I am going to shut off as an option," he said.  "There are certain areas where police operate where I've got doubts as to  whether they actually need a firearm," he said.
In a break with long tradition, some London police teams will openly carry  hand guns and will not need prior permission to use them, London Police  Commissioner Paul Condon announced Monday.
