Vietnam and the United States announced Thursday  they will open diplomatic offices in their capitals in a major step towards  resuming full relations 19 years after Washington pulled out of the country,  Hanoi announced Thursday.
US Assistant Secretary of State Winston Lord and Vice Foreign Minister Le  Mai exchanged letters on May 20 and 21 agreeing to the opening of liaison  offices in Hanoi and Washington, the Vietnamese foreign ministry said.
The two sides have been negotiating to open the offices since February,  when President Bill Clinton lifted a sweeping trade ban imposed on all of  Vietnam after the communist victory over the US-backed southern government in  1975.
"The initial official representation will be in the form of liaison  offices and the head of the office will hold the title 'Chief of Liaison  Office'," the statement said.
Vietnam described the move as "an important step in the normalisation of  relations providing both governments with favourable conditions to continue  the resolution of issues of common concern."
In Washington, the US State Department confirmed the agreement and said  that it was hoped the offices could be opened soon.
"The date for opening the offices will depend on implementation of an  agreement to return each country's diplomatic properties," McCurry added in a  written statement.
In his letter to Hanoi, Lord said cautioned that "there remain many  technical and substantive issues that will have to be resolved between our two  governments before full normalization of relations can be realized,  particularly progress on American POWs and MIAs."
The last US diplomats stationed in Vietnam fled by helicopter from the  roof of their embassy as North Vietnamese troops tightened their grip on  Saigon, an image of defeat that was seared on the memory of many Americans.
Three officials from the State Department currently work in Hanoi without  diplomatic status to help in the search for US servicemen still missing in  action (MIA) from the conflict here.
Vietnam's cooperation in the search for the 2,234 MIAs has been a key  concern in the US decision to lift the embargo and move towards normalising  ties with Hanoi, and Washington is still demanding the "fullest possible  accounting.
The liaison offices are to be staffed by between 15 and 20 diplomats,  making the US office larger than many other foreign missions.
State Department technical teams have visited Hanoi to work out details of  communications and accommodation space in the liaison office, which is  expected to be set up in the former US consulate building.
The foreign ministry did not say whether the United States would open a  consulate in its former embassy in former Saigon, now named Ho Chi Minh City,  but two weeks ago officials announced that diplomatic property claims had been  settled.
Full diplomatic relations could still be some way off, as Washington wants  to see a number of issues resolved including an exchange of assets frozen by  both sides at the end of the war.
More than 500 million dollars are held, with American companies claiming  some 230 million dollars seized by the Vietnamese. Hanoi is demanding the  return of 290 million dollars deposited by the former South Vietnam government  in US bank accounts.
The two sides held talks in New York in March on human rights, with  Vietnam signalling its willingness to continue a dialogue but maintaining its  refusal to accept what it terms interference in its internal affairs.
Access by US consular officials to returning Vietnamese-Americans is  another problem that remains to be settled, as Hanoi regards the one million  Vietnamese in the United States in the same restrictive legal light as its  citizens here.
US businesses -- a driving force behind pressure to lift the embargo --  are now clamouring for full diplomatic ties, which would ease the negotiation  of aviation and trade agreements, including Most Favoured Nation tariff status  for Vietnam exports to the United States.
Some 60 American firms have opened offices in Vietnam, investing more than  20 million US dollars since February.
