Crowds mulled around the posh Fifth Avenue  apartment block of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, placing flowers and other  mementos around the building to bid farewell to the former first lady Friday.
"Go with God," read one scrawled note next to the front door. Another  offering was a single pale pink rose tied to a white ribbon. It joined neatly  wrapped bouquets and home-made bunches of flowers lining the entranceway.
One bouquet was left by a jogger as she trotted by.
Across the street dozens of people mingled, many red-eyed from crying.
"I'm going to wait for her to come out. I don't care what time she comes  out," said one mourner.
Spectators stood watching as attendants brought a shiny brown coffin into  the building where her children, John Jr., and Caroline, were waiting.
A gray and black hearse brought the empty coffin to the apartment's  service entrance. Men in black suits lifted the coffin covered with a gray  cloth into the residence.
In Washington, gray skies and drizzle shrouded Arlington National  Cemetery, where President John F. Kennedy is buried. Onassis will be buried  next to him said family spokeswoman Nancy Tuckerman.
She will be buried on Monday afternoon after a funeral at St. Ignatius of  Loyola Roman Catholic Church in Manhattan added Tuckerman.
At the gravesite, four red carnations rested on Kennedy's gravestone. In  addition to the president, two of the couple's children - Patrick who died in  1963 shortly after birth and a daughter stillborn in 1956 - lie near the  president.
The always private Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis died at home the way she had  wanted, surrounded by the people she loved, said her son here earlier Friday.
"My mom passed on surrounded by her friends and family and her books with  people she loved," said John Kennedy Jnr. outside Onassis' residence.
"She did it her own way, on her own terms and we all feel lucky for that,"  he added.
The former First Lady passed away Thursday night after losing a battle  with cancer. She was 64.
Onassis' spokeswoman Nancy Tuckerman said the funeral would be private,  the way Onassis, who had shunned the spotlight since the assassination of  President John Kennedy in Dallas in November 1963, wanted.
