Egypt said Sunday that Yemen agreed to a UN Security  Council debate on its civil war, but the northern authorities in Sanaa said  they still opposed outside interference in the country's affairs.
Foreign Minister Amr Mussa said the approval of UN efforts to install a  ceasefire came from his Yemeni counterpart Mohammad Bassandawa after talks  here with President Hosni Mubarak.
But a conflicting signal emerged from Sanaa, where Deputy Prime Minister  Abdelwahab al-Ansi told European Union ambassadors that UN interference would  be in violation of the organisation's charter.
"Sanaa has agreed that the question of a ceasefire be examined by the  United Nations Security Council," in contrast to its previous stand that the  war was an internal matter and the international community should stay out,  Mussa said.
Bassandawa himself said the Council "must insist on preserving Yemen's  unity" and reiterated the north's conditions for a ceasefire with the  breakaway south.
"We want an end to the fighting as well as a Security Council decision in  this direction," the foreign minister said. "Then a dialogue could be launched  between the two parties."
He added the south must go back on its May 21 declaration of an  independent state, "because this decision is illegal" under the constitution  of Yemen, which was unified in May 1990.
"Unity happened voluntarily in 1990 and it is still the basis of any  solution," he said.
Bassandawa said the north was in contact with southern officials who  reject separation, in contrast to their leader Ali Salem al-Baid, whom Sanaa  wants to put on trial for war crimes.
The foreign minister arrived in Cairo on Saturday, ahead of a meeting of  the Non-Aligned Movement starting Tuesday.
Saudi Arabia and Oman, backed by other Gulf states and Egypt, have urged  the Security Council to call for a ceasefire to the war raging in Yemen since  May 5 and to impose an arms embargo on both sides.
The south has welcomed the plan, while insisting that northern troops  withdraw to the old border between the conservative, tribal North Yemen and  former Marxist South.
An envoy from the breakaway south, Haidar Abu Bakr al-Attas, said in the  United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Sunday that he expected the Security Council to  call for a ceasefire "in the next few days."
"The resolution will be binding to all parties and we are ready to stick to  it. I think it is in the interest of the Yemeni people to halt the war," he  said.
But in Sanaa, where the northern government is based, Deputy Prime  Minister Ansi said UN action "exposes countries which have far more serious  problems than Yemen to interference in their internal affairs.
A debate on the Yemeni conflict "constitutes a violation of the UN  charter," he told EU ambassadors.
The Yemeni parliament on Sunday also rejected outside interference in the  civil war, saying such action would only serve to encourage secessionists, the  official news agency Saba reported.
Interference by any state, regional or international organisation would  also violate the Yemeni constitution, MPs said in a statement, without direct  reference to the UN.
UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros Ghali, meanwhile, said he would send  an envoy to Yemen after a ceasefire to help reconcile warring parties and  restore unity.
"I hope the Security Council will issue a resolution calling on the Yemeni  parties to halt hostilities and to ask the UN secretary general to send a  special envoy," he told the United Arab Emirates newspaper Al-Ittihad.
