US Secretary of State Warren Christopher met  twice  here Monday with Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara as the official  press called for a rapid Israeli withdrawal from the annexed Golan Heights.
The second meeting came as state-run Damascus Radio praised the United  States for making "intense and serious efforts to help the parties move closer  together and push forward on the long road to peace."
Christopher is trying to forge a Syrian-Israeli accord on the Golan, which  has been the stumbling block in their negotiations since the Middle East peace  process was launched in October 1991.
A Western diplomat said Syria wanted an Israeli withdrawal to be completed  within three years while Israel was offering a five-to-eight year pullout,  with the initial return of three out of five Druze villages on the plateau.
Christopher, who was due to leave for Israel, met Shara for one hour in  the morning after talks with his advisors at the US embassy "to evaluate the  situation," a US official said.
He emerged from the first meeting declining to make comments and went  straight back to the embassy, emerging three hours later for another round of  talks with Shara.
Informed sources said their talks also focused on relations between  Washington and Damascus, namely a US decision earlier this month to keep Syria  on a list of countries sponsoring terrorism.
"The Syrians have been very angry about this decision and they feel that  if the United States considers them 'terrorists' then it is not logical for  them to be discussing peace," one source said.
The US envoy had four hours of talks with President Hafez al-Assad on  Sunday, in the second meeting between the two men in as many weeks.
The government daily Tishrin said Syria would negotiate an Israeli  withdrawal from the Golan on condition Israel pledged a complete pullout  within an "acceptable and reasonable" timeframe.
"The necessary condition to help Christopher's mission to succeed is to  call on Israel to withdraw from the Golan immediately and rapidly according to  a well-defined agenda," it said.
