Chinese Vice Premier Zhu Rongji has called for  banks to loosen credit to cash-strapped state enterprises but said hopless  ones should be allowed to go bankrupt, reports said Monday.
Emphasising the need to ensure social stability, Zhu said during a recent  trip to the central provinces of Hubei and Henan that attention should be  focused on "key" areas of agriculture and state enterprises.
The People's Daily quoted Zhu, also central bank governor, as saying banks  should help state enterprises overcome the difficulties caused by the ongoing  credit squeeze, part of the government's policy for curbing inflation of more  than 20 percent.
One in two state enterprises lost money in the first quarter of the year,  up from one third in the same period last year, according to State Statistical  Bureau figures.
Banks and local governments should conduct surveys to differentiate good  firms from bad and "give their full support to those enterprises that are able  to sell their products, can repay their debts and are efficient," the report  cited China's economic czar as saying.
He said banks should also lend to enterprises that have run into debt and,  in particular, help those that have been forced to stop production and are  having difficulty paying their workers because to their inability to secure  credit in recent months.
However, Zhu added, "as for those long-term loss-makers that have no hope  of turning a profit, earnest preparatory work should be carried out and they  should be allowed to go bankrupt in accordance with the law."
This would first be done in trial cases and then "more broadly," in order  to promote reforms aimed at achieving a modern enterprise system, he was  quoted as saying.
The Chinese government, despite implementing a bankruptcy law in the  mid-1980s, has stopped short of allowing large numbers of enterprises in the  loss-making sector go bankrupt for fear of surging unemployment and social  unrest.
The sector is estimated to employ some 10 million surplus workers.
