The allied invasion of Europe might never have  succeeded but for an engineering marvel called the Mulberries, two gargantuan  floating harbors that allowed a fully mechanized army to drive onto hostile  and heavily fortified shores.
The problem was formidable: move hundreds of thousands of troops,  thousands of tanks, trucks and artillery pieces, and thousands of tons of  ordnance and supplies onto Normandy beaches where German gunnery bunkers,  mines and off-shore tank traps lay in wait.
The obvious solution, to capture and use an existing port such as  Cherbourg, was dismissed out of hand after the disastrous failure of such an  Anglo-Canadian attempt at Dieppe in 1942.
"All I can say is if we can't capture a port, we must take one with us,"  an allied officer is supposed to have said in 1943, sparking the idea that  made Operation Overlord work.
Months later, at the Conference of Quebec in August 1943, British Prime  Minister Winston Churchill and US President Franklin Delano Roosevelt put the  concept formally on paper.
The plan they hatched was revolutionary: build two artificial harbors in  Britain -- one for the British, one for the Americans -- that could be floated  and towed in pieces across the English Channel and quickly assembled off the  Normandy coast.
Churchill was said to have been sold on the idea by John Desmond Bernal,  41-year-old scientific advisor to British allied commander Louis Mountbatten,  during an extraordinary session in a bathroom of the liner Queen Mary taking  them to Quebec.
Churchill and his chiefs of staff crowded around a filled bathtub,  mesmerized like children, as Bernal launched 20 paper boats on the water and  proceeded to sink them by making waves with a loofah sponge.
Bernal then launched 20 more paper boats. But this time he floated a  lifejacket between the boats and the loofah. When the waves came, they were  stopped by the lifejacket, and the boats stayed afloat.
"That, gentlemen, is what would happen if we had an artificial harbour."
Each of the two Mulberries was to be the size of the port at Dover, with a  total working area exceeding that of the entire Southhampton dock system.
They would have to float with the tides, ride out violent channel storms  and be capable of receiving 12,000 tons of material and 2,500 vehicles a day  over 10 kilometers (six miles) of pontoon-supported pier.
It was one of the most ambitious engineering projects ever undertaken, and  it was carried out in total secrecy.
Ten months in construction, the Mulberries were built in pieces by scores  of companies in every corner of England, Scotland and Wales, with a peak work  force of 45,000 doing 12-hour shifts around the clock.
Each of the two Mulberries consisted of 48 enormous floating concrete  caissons called phoenixes, each 18 metres (60 feet) high, 15 metres (50 feet)  wide, 61 metres (200 feet) long and weighing 6,000 tons.
On D-Day they were towed across the channel by 150 tugboats and assembled,  under enemy fire, around the beaches of Arromanches and Saint Laurent.
Accompanying them were nearly 100 rigid inflatable breakwaters called  Bombardons. The combination formed two artificial harbors, each enclosing two  square miles of relatively calm ocean in which troop and supply ships could  dock and unload, safe from the battering waves.
For nearly two weeks following D-Day the Mulberries worked perfectly,  allowing the landing of the allied army that would eventually liberate Europe.
A terrible storm destroyed the American Mulberry on June 19 and forced the  allies to capture the port of Cherbourgh a week later.
Fifty years later, pieces of the wrecked Mullberries still litter the  Normandy beaches.
One commentator of the day called them the "eighth wonder of the world."
