French Open officials are to investigate the first  known case of ball tampering in tennis.
The issue blew up on Friday when Austria's Thomas Muster admitted he had  deliberately rubbed two balls on the ground in an effort to slow them down  during his four set defeat by powerful Australian Patrick Rafter.
Tournament supervisor Bill Gilmour said: "I've never heard of anything  like this. We will be investigating.
"Any attempt to disfigure the ball constitutes unsportsmanlike behaviour  and would certainly deserve a fine."
Muster said: "I did it to slow them down.
"We had a soft ball and it had to be replaced. He used it three times in a  row when all the other balls were three games old. That's not very sporting  either."
Rafter noticed his opponent's actions, which apparently escaped American  umpire Dana Loconto but will have been picked up by television.
"I thought 'he's tampering with the balls,'", Rafter said. "I had a good  look at them but I didn't bring it up with the umpire because I didn't want to  get distracted."
Muster could also be in trouble over a spitting incident in the second set.
Rafter, frustrated with Muster's frequent calls to the umpire to come and  check the mark of the ball in disputed calls, fired down an ace to seal the  fifth game of the second set.
He then hurdled the net and drew a circle with his raquet around the  clearly-in mark, mimicking Muster.
As Rafter returned to his chair, Muster appeared to spit at him. But he  denied that he had aimed at his opponent. "I spat about a thousand times  today," he said.
The bad-tempered match came just as tennis officials are trying to clean  up the game.
Andre Agassi, beaten by Muster in the second round earned a penalty point  and was fined for verbal abusing an umpire and an audible obscenity during  that match.
Agassi was told he would be defaulted if he offended again. But Muster  escaped any punishment for similar outbursts on Friday and afterwards  expressed barely disguised contempt for the code of conduct.
"One warning is nothing," he said. "It is not even a fine. You could get a  warning but what would it change?"
am94
