After a week of mourning for Labour leader John  Smith the British campaign for the June 9 European parliament elections kicked  off Monday with the opposition saying it would be a referendum on Prime  Minister John Major.
Major's Conservatives are striving to limit the campaign to European  issues but the Labour and Liberal Democrat opposition parties, following  stinging victories in local council elections earlier this month, see the  Euro-elections as a forum to take another whack at the premier's faltering  leadership.
The Tory battle plan is basically to dwell on what will unite the party,  and gloss over what threatens to divide it.
Their platform thus stresses enlargement of the European Union, free trade  and decentralization, and soft-pedals the thorny question of a single European  currency as something to be debated by a future, not current, parliament.
"I really don't think it's a topical question," Major said in presenting  his party's platform. "There are very few indications, virtually none, I would  say, that the conditions for a single currency would present themselves in a  forseeable future."
Labour has been equally reticent on the subject, and the Liberal Democrats  do not even mention it in their 28-page campaign program.
The Tories are also skirting the touchy issue of evolution of European  institutions.
Labour's campaign raises other problems, linked to succession of Smith as  leader of the party. The succession battle, not yet officially begun, puts  potential candidates in a tricky situation: campaigning for the party without  appearing to be campaigning for themselves.
Margaret Beckett, Smith's deputy and acting Labour leader, has said the  Euro-elections will "inevitably be a referendum on Mr. Major and his  government."
The Tory position is not strong. After the trouncing they took in council  votes this month, they trail Labour in the polls.
The latest, on Monday, gave Labour a 46 percent approval rating, with 27  percent for the Conservative Party and 22 percent for the Liberal Democtrats.
But the same poll brought good news of sorts for Major.
Of Conservatives asked, 57 percent thought the premier should keep his  job, against 38 percent who did not, even in the predictable event of a Tory  route in the June 9 Euro-elections.
