Taiwan will shortly let foreign insurers join their  US counterparts to operate on its soil as part of an effort to liberalise the  economy, finance ministry officials said Friday.
Authorities here have only permitted US firms to participate in the local  insurance market since 1987, in response to strong demands by Washington.
Under a set of regulations drafted by the ministry, insurance companies  from other countries will be allowed to set up subsidiaries here on a  reciprocal basis, the officials said.
Foreign insurance firms can file applications to the ministry from June 3  to December 2 for operating licenses, they said.
Each applicant is required to hold a minimum paid-up capital of two  billion Taiwanese dollars (74.53 million US) they said, adding that the  Department of Insurance under the ministry will take six months to process  applications.
The move is in line with liberalization required by the General Agreement  on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the world trade body which Taiwan is seeking to  join, and will also help Taiwan's aim of becoming a financial hub, they said.
Twenty-two US life and property insurance firms currently compete with 29  Taiwan insurers for the potentially lucrative insurance market here, while 23  other foreign insurers have set up liaison offices on the island.
In May 1992, the authorities revised the insurance law to lift a 30-year  ban on the establishment of new local insurers and allow a foreign enterprise  to hold a maximum 30-percent equity share in a Taiwan insurance company.
Total foreign investment in a local insurance firm must not exceed 49  percent of equity share.
According to statistics compiled by the Taipei Life Insurance Association,  14 domestic insurers enjoyed an all-time high of 19.54 billion Taiwanese  dollars in operating income for 1993, in contrast to a 1.52-billion-dollar  deficit suffered by their 14 US counterparts.
Among the 28 life insurers, Cathay Life Insurance, Shin Kong Life  Insurance, Nan Shan Life Insurance and Kuo Hua Life Insurance cornered up to  95.44 percent of market share last year.
The island's insurance penetration ratio -- the ratio of total premiums  over gross national product -- was 4.39 percent in 1991, compared with 9.76  percent in Britain, 8.89 percent in the United States and 8.7 percent in Japan.
Market analysts said that the ratio was rising, as Taiwan's per capital  income broke the 10,000-US-dollar mark in 1992.
