Northern Yemeni leaders said Wednesday they intended  to blockade the port of Aden to force a surrender, as ousted vice-president  Ali Salem al-Baid hinted the two-week-old civil war may tear the country apart.
A northern spokesman told AFP Aden was "almost surrounded" and the city  was under a greater threat now that northern troops had seized the vital  Al-Anad air base.
He said the troops' objective was not to break into the city, so as "to  avoid war on the streets, but to put the town under a blockade during which  military targets would be bombed to force the war leaders to surrender or quit  the country."
Meanwhile Baid, stripped of his duties in the early days of the war,  admitted to Saudi television MBC that the south could secede from the north.
The war has laid bare the uneasy union between former conservative north  and Marxist south Yemen which were only merged in May 1990.
Baid told MBC, broadcast in London and monitored in Cyprus, that "after  all these massacres and these sacrifices, I don't know how we are going to  live together again.
"I don't know what direction we will finally take but I can tell you that  it was (President) Ali Abdallah Saleh who has proclaimed secession in  declaring war.
"We will see what all our political forces decide to do and what will be  the best for our people," Baid added.
Sunday Baid's Yemen Socialist Party and five opposition parties, including  three northern ones, announced the setting up of a national unity government.
Meanwhile the north said it had also taken Al-Harur, about 40 kilometres  (24 miles) north of Aden as well as seizing Al-Anad.
A northern spokesman said only 3,000 to 4,000 southern soldiers had been  in the base when they took it and it was now under their "complete control."  They had also taken a large quantity of arms and ammunition from the 12  kilometres (seven miles) long and five kilometres (three miles) wide base.
Northern airplanes had launched a series of raids on southern forces  around Al-Anad and all had returned to base without any damage, a spokesman  told the northern-controlled agency SABA.
He added the north had also shot down two planes above Aden Wednesday.
And in the Shabwa province 300 kilometres (180 miles) northeast of Aden,  northern troops had seized Nissab where a "southern battalion and police  force" went over to the northern side, he added.
In a separate statement he confirmed that the south had fired a Scud  surface-to-surface missile on Sanaa overnight Tuesday, but it had exploded in  the mountains without causing any damage.
Southern troops also fired a missile late Wednesday on the northern town  of Taizz, without causing any victims, SABA said, quoting a northern military  spokesman, without saying what kind it was.
Meanwhile the head of the United Arab Emirates Sheikh Zayed ben Sultan  told Baid by telephone that he regretted that Saleh had refused all calls for  a ceasefire.
Sheikh Zayed said he had called on Saleh several times to lay down arms  and had shown he was willing to act as a mediator, the official agency WAM  reported.
King Fahd of Saudi Arabia meanwhile held talks Wednesday with Yemeni  PLanning Minister Abdel Karim al-Iriani for the second time in a week, Radio  Riyadh said.
