Eurotunnel moved on Thursday to raise about 1.5  billion pounds (2.25 billion dollars) to plug holes in the finances of its  link beneath the Channel from England to France.
Meanwhile in Paris managing director Georges Chazot said the company was  claiming four billion francs (715 million dollars) from an entity formed by  the British Rail and French SNCF railway companies for breach of promise  concerning infrastructure and rolling stock.
Eurotunnel was also demanding that the fares paid by the two railway  companies for use of the tunnel be increased by 55 percent. The complaint was  aimed mainly at British Rail which had not built an extra access line as  agreed in 1986.
Earlier the company, which ran into several financial problems as it  tunnelled, said Thursday it planned to raise 816 million pounds (1.224 billion  dollars) through a three-for-five rights issue, pricing shares at 265 pence  each.
The issue price was at a discount of 25.3 percent to the closing price  here on Wednesday of 355 pence.
The value of the issue was lower than analysts' expectations of about 900  million pounds and the price was higher than the expected figure of 230 pence  to 250 pence.
In Paris, meanwhile, it was announced that the French co-chairman of  Eurotunnel, Andre Benard, had resigned and would be succeeded in July by  Patrick Ponsolle, the former number two at the Suez Company.
Eurotunnel said in a statement it had also entered into agreements with  the company's banks for additional credit facilities of 693 million pounds.
Shareholders have authorised the company to issue 342 million new shares.  Eurotunnel said the subscription period would begin on June 2.
In France, the rights issue would be offered to shareholders at 22.50  francs a share to raise 7.29 billion francs. The sum was calculated on the  basis of 10 francs to the pound to keep calculations in line with previous  forecasts. The current exchange rate is 8.4880 French francs to the pound.
Eurotunnel said the 693 million pounds of additional credit and the 816  million pounds from the rights issue, together with other projected sources of  finance, would be sufficient to cover all of its cash requirements "in a range  of scenarios around a central, or base case, estimate."
It also said the first dividend, of around 13 pence, would be paid in 2004  for the year to December 1993 and that "substantially all" of Eurotunnel's  then available distributable profits would be paid out as dividends.
Analyst Richard Hannah at the Union Bank of Switzerland said he was  "cautious" about how well the rights issue would be taken up by investors,  even though the issue was underwritten.
"It could still be difficult given Eurotunnel's poor forecasting record,"  he added.
