Clashes between rival political groups at one  South African gold mine and a crippling strike at another Friday dampened some  of South Africa's post-election euphoria.
Seven people died in three and a half weeks of political tension between  supporters of the Zulu nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) and the African  National Congress (ANC) at the Western Areas gold mine west of here, National  Union of Mineworkers (NUM) spokesman Jerry Majatladi said Friday.
Security forces under the new government moved swiftly Thursday to prevent  further clashes at Western Areas and confiscated up to eight tonnes of  homemade and traditional weapons from the mine hostel, Frans van Rensburg, a  spokesman for mine owners Johannesburg Consolidated Industries (JCI), said.
"The weapons were found inside the hostel and have now been destroyed," he  told AFP.
Majatladi said "politically motivated" fighting between IFP and ANC  supporters started on April 17, nine days before South Africa's first all-race  elections.
He said one person was killed on April 17, two others died in fighting  during the April 26-29 poll and four were killed Wednesday.
Nelson Mandela's ANC won the election, ending more than 300 years of  white-minority rule.
The IFP of Zulu leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi came in third after the  National Party; members of the three parties make up the government of  national unity that was announced on Wednesday.
Because most miners stay in large hostels accommodating thousands of  people, ethnic and political differences often boil over and result in  violence.
Majatladi said the clashes flared at Western Areas mine when rival groups  tried to drum up support in the run-up to the April 26-29 election.
In one of the worst incidents, four miners were killed Wednesday in an  underground battle in the mine's south shaft between workers armed with axes  and picks before security forces moved in to help restore order, Majatladi  said.
The situation at the mine was quiet Friday ahead of peace talks between  the rival groups, he said.
Both Majatladi and Van Rensburg said the crisis would be resolved by the  miners and management and that they would not seek government intervention,  apart from calling in security forces to quell violence.
"It's none of our business," a spokeswoman for the new Department of  Labour said when asked if the government would intervene.
About 9,500 miners were still on strike Friday after defying a court order  Thursday that ordered them back to work at the Kloof gold mine near  Carletonville, 50 kilometres (32 miles) west of here, Majatladi said.
The owners of the Kloof mine, Gold Fields, estimated production loss since  the strike began on May 5 at around 25 million rands (6.8 million dollars) and  Friday ordered the strikers to return to work by Sunday.
Workers had downed tools eight days ago following the dismissal of NUM  branch chairman Jackson Mafika for allegedly intimidating workers during a  strike in March.
