Russian writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn  on Saturday attacked the "false democracy" he said had taken hold in Russia  since the collapse of communism, at his first press conference after his  return from exile.
The 75-year-old Nobel prize-winner, who came back after 20 years as the  conscience of his much-changed nation, proclaimed himself "absolutely against  the parties" but was vague on his own political aims.
His often virulent speech sought to bury his image as a hallowed  "dissident" of the Soviet era and upheld his return as a "patriot" angry over  what he saw as the erosion of Russia, its territory and language.
"Democracy can only come from the people," he said, urging Russians to  choose their leaders for their "honesty, wisdom and courage."
Asked about chances of implementing a western-style democracy in Russia,  he shot back that any such total transfer would be "stupid" and that "only  monkeys carry things about from one place to another."
The writer answered questions for two hours, seated before a huge Russian  flag in the Vladivostok town hall, his wife Natalia and two of his three sons,  Yermoly and Stepan.
Earlier, he was mobbed by journalists and onlookers as he visited a  Saturday market, finding prices high since he left.
Solzhenitsyn was thrown out of the Soviet Union in 1974 for writing "Gulag  Archipelago," an epic chronicle of the horrors of Soviet labor camps where he  himself spent eight years.
"In the West, I was called a dissident though people were unaware of my  opinions. But I never had anything in common with the dissidents. My opinions  have always been radical, always different, always patriotic," he said, adding  "The privatizations were trickery."
He criticized Russia's decision to abandon territories accorded to other  former Soviet republics in the days of the USSR.
"They gave seven million Russians to Kazakhstan -- southern Siberia and  the region of the Cossacks -- and now they are banning the Cossack identity,"  he said.
He said the central Asian republic of Kazakhstan had "false borders  inherited from Leninism," and accused Kazakh authorities of "aiming to allow  the 40 percent Kazakhs to rule the 60 percent others."
"They also gave 12 million Russians to the Ukraine, about five or six  Russian territories and no one said a word," he said, adding on the other hand  "there is a lot of noise about only 1,400 residents in the Kuril islands"  disputed by Japan.
He insisted however that he "would accept no political post either by  appointment or by election."
"I really want to improve the difficult situation of our fatherland but  through public meetings and my articles," he said.
As for political figures, Solzhenitsyn slammed former Soviet president  Mikhail Gorbachev as a "hypocrite," and dismissed Russian ultra-nationalist  deputy Vladimir Zhirinovksy as a "caricature of the Russian patriot."
But he rebuffed questions about President Boris Yeltsin, saying, "I have  just come back from Vermont and you, you live here. Give me time."
He also refused to comment on the congratulatory telegram Yeltsin sent him  hoping his "talent and experience as a historian and thinker would greatly  help rebuild Russia."
Solzhenitsyn said had "not forgiven" those who condemned him to the Soviet  Gulag prison "since I never felt any bitterness towards them" and because "the  decision about my imprisonment was absolutely correct," as he had been  "totally opposed to the communist regime."
From Vladivostok, he is to undertake a tour of several weeks by train  before settling in Moscow, but his departure date has been kept secret.
He will travel in a specially chartered government luxury wagon to "meet  and listen" to his fellow Russians.
"You cannot be a tourist in your own land," he said.
