US Secretary of State Warren Christopher is due  to return on his third peace shuttle between Israel and Syria around June 12,  an Israeli foreign ministry source said late Thursday.
"We are expecting Mr. Christopher to come to Jerusalem and Damascus around  June 12 after a meeting he is due to hold in Turkey, but the date has not yet  been fixed," said a senior official who asked not to be named.
It will the third time in about six weeks that Christopher will travel to  Middle East in a bid to secure a peace accord between the long-time arch  enemies Syria and Israel.
Earlier Thursday Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Yossi Beilin said Israel  and Syria could sign a peace agreement this year with the help of increased US  diplomatic efforts.
"If US Secretary of State Warren Christopher continues his tours of the  Middle East and even steps up the pace, then it is possible to reach a peace  agreement with Syria in 1994," Beilin told Arab-language Israeli television.
He said "despite divergences the basis of an accord already exists."
But he added it would need more shuttle missions by Christopher between  Damascus and Jerusalem to reach "concrete results".
Christopher ended a second shuttle mission between Jerusalem and Damascus  in three weeks Wednesday, admitting there was still a long way to go in the  search to bring peace between Israel and Syria.
An Israeli foreign ministry official said there had been no tangible  results from the trip.
"To make progress in the talks with Damascus, American diplomacy will have  to make it its top priority," he said.
Syria too said there were important differences between the two sides.
The main stumbling block to resuming stalled Israel-Syria peace talks has  been the issue of the Golan Heights, seized in 1967 and annexed in 1981.
In messages relayed to Syrian President Hafez al-Assad by Christopher,  Israel has proposed a phased withdrawal from the strategic heights,
But Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shareh dismissed Israeli peace  proposals Thursday saying they showed Israel did not want to withdraw from all  the Arab lands it occupied during the 1967 Middle East war.
Shareh said the proposals "would not help to achieve progress" in the  peace process as they "were based on premeditated Israeli intentions not to  withdraw from all the Arab lands occupied in 1967", the official agency SANA  reported.
Syria is demanding a commitment to total withdrawal before resuming talks,  while Israel is offering a phased withdrawal in return for a peace pledge.
Earlier Thursday Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Syria was  "blowing cool" about manoeuvres to bring it back to the negotiating table.
"We know the Syrians' methods," Peres told state radio. "Until an  agreement is concluded they blow cool winds in every direction."
