"American police have never experienced football hooligans going on the  rampage and European hooligans have never come across a police force that not  only carries guns but uses them," said a European diplomat who is helping with  security.
"Some police in Europe carry guns, but they would not draw them when  handling rioting hooligans. Here they will. The ingredients are there for a  possible tragedy," he added.
World Cup security chief Ed Best admits that despite all the attempts to  halt known hooligans from getting into the country, many will still make it.
"I'm not guaranteeing we won't have an incident," Best said. "It would be  foolish to do that. We will not be able to anticipate everything. This is a  strange world. But if we do have one, we will handle it. The key is planning."
Dallas deputy police chief Rick Hatler is busy preparing for the  "invasion".
"The question is not if they come, it's how many and where will they cause  problems," he says. "We won't be represssive, but we will take aggressive  action if there are problems."
Security measures will differ slightly by venue, but metal detectors,  detailed surveillance cameras and guards can be expected everywhere.
Chicago security manager Lee Flosi, who will spend his World Cup watching  the crowds on special cameras, explained: "If there is a dime on the ground,  these cameras can see the date."
But he admitted: "We've already done a lot to keep hooligans away. We can  deal with 10 or 15 troublemakers. It's the 500 that are hard to handle."
Security officials have been to see how the British, German, Italian and  Swedish police deal with hooligans and even the Defense Department has been  helping out.
Rothenberg worries one bad incident could undo his plans for making soccer  as popular as basketball, baseball and American football.
"One thing I fear is, if anything happens during the World Cup, even if it  has nothing to do with football, the claim will be that hooliganism has been  allowed to spread to the United States," he said.
"As much as anything, we worry about the eyes of the world on this  country. Any lunatic wanting attention for a cause could do something."
