The year 1993 was a bad one for Africa marked by  warfare and famine over much of the continent, with encouraging prospects  perceived in just a few countries like South Africa, the International  Institue of Strategic Studies said in a report out Monday.
The report by the London-based think tank said the title of a book by  Nigerian writer Chinua Achebe "Things fall apart" aptly summed up the  situation in Africa.
"1993 was a bad year, with much of the continent quite literally in the  red.... the war in Angola reached new stages of brutality" and "after the  initial hopes for the US-led intervention by the United Nations in Somalia,  violence became an everyday occurence in Mogadishu," the report said.
In Burundi the country's first Hutu president Melchior Ndadaye, who had  been democratically elected, was assassinated "plunging the country into an  orgy of ethnic violence".
"Burundi and Rwanda are two of the most tragic examples of this resurgence  of long-standing ethnic differences" across the continent, the report said,  recalling that massacres between Hutus and Tutsis had taken place on several  occasions in the past 35 years since Burundi and Rwanda gained their  independence.
The report also said the "euphoria" perceived in Africa at the beginning  of the decade with the organisation of free elections in several countries had  now vanished as a result of the "lack of a political culture of compromise".
The report blamed the "belief on the part of both the winners and losers  of elections or political competition that the winner would take everything  leaving the loser with no political role, no right to question and criticise  and no security".
In South Africa where events of 1993 led to the election in April this  year of President Nelson Mandela, the IISS said "the election of a new  government is only the beginning."
"The major cause of apprehension lies in the unrealistic expectations of  many black South Africans, especially the youth, that the ANC (African  National Congress) government will be able instantly to deliver jobs, housing  and education to a million whom apartheid dispossessed," the IISS said.
One of the conditions for success will be "economic pragmatism" and "a  willingness by Mandela's new government to shed most of its ideological  baggage as a liberation movement".
In addition to South Africa, the IISS said there were a few other  countries like Botswana, Benin, Cape Verde, Namibia or Zimbabwe "where  multiparty systems have survived intact or have been restored and where war  has been replaced by peace" but these were "very much the exception to the  rule in 1993".
ATTENTION EMBARGO
