The European Commission tried here Friday to  breathe life back into its plan to rescue Europe's troubled steel industry,  after one of its architects had declared on Thursday that the project was dead.
A spokesman for the European Union executive said EU industry ministers,  at a meeting in June, would discuss the plan, which calls for cuts of at least  19 million tonnes of steel output a year -- about 15 percent of capacity.
EC Competitions Commissioner Karel van Miert had on Thursday declared the  plan dead, because it would have meant the closing down of steel plants in the  Brescia region of Italy.
But commission officials insisted that the project could still be rescued,  although they gave no indication how this could be done.
In return for cuts of at least 19 million tonnes of hot-rolled steel a  year, the commission has proposed a fund of several hundred million dollars to  finance the closing of steel plants and help retrain employees for new jobs.
The plan, aimed at bringing an end to massive over-production in the face  of a glut and low prices, involves shedding about 60,000 jobs.
The EU executive has so far won pledges, from private and publicly-owned  steelworks, of production cuts totalling around 11 million tonnes.
The rescue plan thus depended on another cut of up to six million tonnes  by private producers in the Brescia region of northern Italy, which would  bring the target within reach.
The commission had proposed helping them reach their cutback goal by  offering aid of 415 million Ecu (480 million dollars). But the proposal failed  because some of the Brescia plants would have had to close down altogether.
The commission would not accept Van Miert's proposal to bend EU rules by  allowing the factories to reach the cutback target by simply cutting output at  each plant, instead of closing some of them down altogether.
The EU spokesman insisted that the commission had merely ruled on  Wednesday on the Brescia steelworks. He suggested that Van Miert was premature  in insisting that the entire steel rescue plan was dead.
A spokesman for EU Industry Commissioner Martin Bangemann conceded that the  situation was "dramatic." Another official said that Van Miert had aggravated  the situation by his angry outburst that "the rescue plan is dead."
Last year, after a bad-tempered debate, the EU persuaded  heavily-subsidised state-owned steelworks to cut hot-rolled steel output by  5.5 million tonnes a year in exchange for last-time subsidies of about 7.5  million dollars.
The commission is now trying to get an unwilling private steel sector to  share out production cuts of about 13 million tonnes.
