China demanded on Thursday that President Bill  Clinton renew its most-favored-nation trading privileges with no strings  attached, but meantime moved to liberalize its trade system.
Clinton was to announce later Thursday or Friday that he will renew  China's Most-Favored-Nation (MFN) status, but with limited sanctions to punish  Beijing for failing to make "overall significant progress" on human rights,  informed sources in Washington told AFP.
Those sanctions could include a ban on imports from factories owned by  China's powerful armed forces, as well as a US commission to keep tabs on  human rights in the world's most populous and fastest growing economy.
But at its weekly news briefing in Beijing, the foreign ministry declared  that attaching conditions to MFN status would be "unwise," and it demanded a  "suitable decision" from the US president.
"The unilateral exertion of pressure and adoption of restrictive measures  with regard to trade ... is not in conformity with international practices,"  foreign ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin said.
Only hours before, however, China bowed to earlier US demands for more  open trade by slashing import licences and quotas on 195 products, clearly  hoping this would speed up its bid to rejoin the General Agreement on Tariffs  and Trade (GATT) by year's end.
Wu refused to comment on what steps China might take if conditions are  attached to MFN, but political analysts say a trade war is very likely if  Beijing opts to retaliate against US products and investment.
The United States extends MFN status to virtually all its trading  partners, enabling goods to enter the US market at preferential tariffs.
But since the Beijing massacre of pro-democracy activists, five years ago  next weekend, US critics of China's communist regime have pressed the White  House to revoke MFN until human rights make a turn for the better.
In slashing the import licences and quotas on 195 products, Assistant  Trade Minister Long Yongtu said China was making a "major move" to bring its  trade system in line with world standards.
