Fifteen South Korean victims of sex slavery by  Japanese soldiers during World War II sought immediate apologies and   compensation Tuesday, saying they were too old to wait years for results.
The victims, aged between 64 and 77, arrived in Tokyo to hold direct  negotiations with the Japanese government, aimed at quickly settling the   stalled dispute.
"Our lifetime is already limited," Boksseon Kim, 68, told reporters. "In  court, we are continuing to fight for direct apologies and compensation, but  so far the Japanese government has not taken any actions."
Since 1991, a total of 105 comfort women and survivers of war victims have  filed suits against Tokyo. But none of the cases have been settled.
Kim, wearing a white national costume, said: "We were taken to the  Philippines, Burma and China by the Japanese army and forced to serve as  prostitutes for ten soldiers a day. Most of us were killed after spending  unbearable times as human beings."
One of the other women broke into tears as she recounted how she was hurt  with a Japanese sword when she refused to provide sex. Another said she was  taken to a war-time brothel days before her marriage.
Kim said: "In fact, the government has expressed only a flimsy apology so  far. Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata and Emperor Akihito should officially  apologize to us. Other than that, we will never return home."
The South Koreans are to meet Foreign Ministry officials Wednesday, but  the South Korean group said that the ministry did not intend to negotiate but  would hold hearings.
Last year, the government admitted that the war-time Japanese Imperial  Army forcibly recruited Korean women to serve the sexual desires of Japanese  soldiers before and during the war.
Former prime minister Kiichi Miyazawa promised to consider what Japan  could do for the victims from a humanitarian point of view.
In addition, prime minister Morihiro Hosokawa last August offered the most  far-reaching apology ever from a Japanese leader for Tokyo's wartime  atrocities, sparking demands for compensation.
But government officials said that it had no plan to immediately unveil  special compensation to former comfort women.
"It is a very sensitive and difficult issue," said an official of the  prime minister's office. "We might announce something this year but might  delay it until next year. We really don't know the timing."
Up to 200,000 women, mostly from the Korean peninsula but also from Taiwan,  Indonesia, the Philippines and the Netherlands, worked in frontline brothels  set up by the Japanese army before and during the war.
The South Korean group is to join a rally on Saturday here with Japanese  supporters to call on the government to hold direct negotiations and to  announce large compensations as soon as possible.
