An appeal court on Tuesday upheld jail terms of a  year each for five journalists on the opposition daily La Voie accused of  affronting Ivory Coast's President Henri Konan Bedie.
The journalists were also ordered each to pay fines of 200,000 CFA francs  (345 dollars), but the court did not order the immediate imprisonment of three  of the journalists who are still out of jail.
Defence lawyers said the three -- Cesar Etou, Freedom Neruda and Jacques  Prejean -- could be put behind bars when the court ruling is officially  published.
The two others, the paper's managing editor Abou Drahamane Sangare, who is  also deputy leader of the opposition Ivorian People's Front, and Souleymane  Senn, on April 13 began serving three-year jail terms on separate convictions  of breach of the peace and incitement to violence.
In the latest, controversial case, the five journalists were convicted  because La Voie picked up a report from the weekly Jeune Afrique magazine that  alleged that Ivory Coast last February asked France for 100 million francs  (17.7 million dollars) to help pay for the funeral of late president and  veteran statesman Felix Houphouet-Boigny.
This was considered an illegal affront to the new head of state.
Since Bedie succeeded Houphouet-Boigny in December 1993, seven journalists  have been given jail terms in Ivory Coast.
Present in the court for Tuesday's ruling were two observers from the  French movement Reporters sans Frontieres (RSF; Reporters without borders),  which last week wrote to Bedie in protest at the convictions.
RSF declared that the "jailing of a journalist, whatever the offence  committed in the press, cannot be considered an acceptable response."
For its part, the US-based Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ)  protested that the sentences were a "violation of Article 19 of the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights which guarantees the right to seek, receive and  impart information and ideas through any media."
In a letter to Bedie, the CPJ warned: "This crackdown on the press during  your administration's first five months in power calls into question Your  Excellency's commitment to democratic ideals and a free press."
