Australia and a number of other countries are  considering increased military aid to bolster and restructure Cambodian forces  to help them fight the far-left Khmer Rouge, officials in Canberra said Friday.
France, the United States and some Asian countries are said to be  discussing the most appropriate form of assistance because of the growing fear  the Cambodian goverment is incapable of properly defending itself against a  more disciplined Marxist guerilla force.
But Thailand would not be involved and has actually warned Australia to  stay out of Cambodia, one official said.
Although Australia is a major supporter of Cambodia -- last month doubling  its aid package to 92 million dollars (66 million US) -- current military aid  is minimal and mainly focused on mine clearance and naval training.
"We are looking at military assistance," a foreign affairs department  official said. "But whether that package is training, material or whatever has  yet to be determined."
"There would need to be assurances that what was being provided if any was  properly utilised, not sold off, that they are going to take care of it and  that the structure of the army is improved to the extent that they would  become more competent and be able to use that equipment more effectively."
"The Khmer Rouge are still active, still being obtrusive and while it is  judged that they do not have the capacity to overthrow the Royal Cambodian  government they continue to be an ongoing thorn in their side."
This was preventing Cambodia from being able to move on to developmental  work it had hoped to start after last year's election.
Thailand had made clear to Australia its view that no other country should  be involved in providing military assistance to Cambodia, which Bangkok  believes should fight its own battles, the official said.
But Australia, which played a key role in developing the Paris accords  that brought a measure of democracy and for a time relative peace to Cambodia  does not intend to play a leading role in countering the Khmer Rouge.
Its talks with other countries are focused on strengthening the capacity  ofCambodian forces.
"I dont think any country wants to step out ahead and take the lead, partly  because the Paris accords prevent that to a certain extent," the official  said.
"Equally, I dont think any country realistically wants to take on that  level of responsibility so the approach would be a concerted one."
King Norodom Sihanouk, speaking after a series of reversals for the  Cambodian government forces against the ultra-left guerrillas, expressed  despair Thursday for his country's future, and said military aid seemed to be  only solution.
But he has also admitted to the widespread problems of indiscipline and  corruption within the army's ranks.
