Northern League leader Umberto Bossi and  former socialist prime minister Bettino Craxi are to stand trial for  corruption in July in connection with the so-called Enimont scandal, judicial  officials said Tuesday.
The trial of Bossi, whose movement is part of new Prime Minister Silvio  Berlusconi's governing coalition, Craxi and 30 other leading figures from  Italy's political and commercial establishment gets under way July 5, the  officials said. The defendants include former premier Arnaldo Forlani.
Enimont was the name of a failed merger at the end of the 1980s between  state energy concern ENI and the private Ferruzzi-Montedison conglomerate.
According to testimony at an earlier Enimont trial, an estimated 100  million dollars in bribes to political parties were paid out during its  abortive formation.
Bossi, who is not a member of Berlusconi's fledgling right-wing  government, is to be charged over 120,000 dollars reportedly paid to the  Northern League, the officials said.
The League presented itself in March elections as a party untainted by the  series of corruption scandals which have discredited Italy's post-war  political establishment over the past few years.
For Craxi, the trial is the latest of several in which he is due to appear  as the former head of the Socialist Party, one of the movements which is said  to have benefited most from corruption.
The former premier fled to Tunisia earlier this month after court  authorities demanded his passport. He says he is undergoing treatment for  diabetes there.
All 32 of the defendants testified over kickbacks paid to their parties at  the earlier trial, of former Enimont financial advisor Sergio Cusani,  sentenced to eight years in jail at the end of April for his role in the  affair.
After the end of the trial, magistrates heading the Milan-based "Clean  Hands" investigation into corruption called for 37 Enimont witnesses to stand  trial.
Preliminary examining magistrate Italo Ghitti gave the go-ahead Tuesday  for cases against all but five, the officials ahead.
The 32 are senior figures from all of Italy's former governing parties.
They include former Christian Democrat prime minister Forlani, ex-party  treasurer Severino Citaristi, and former foreign and justice ministers Gianni  De Michelis and Claudio Martelli, the officials said.
Also due to stand trial are former Republican Party secretary Giorgio La  Malfa and two Ferruzzi administrators, Carlo Sama and Guiseppe Garofano.
The trial of Cusani, the first person to be convicted over the Enimont  scandal, revealed the magnitude of the network of illegal payments to  political parties operating between the formation of the joint venture and the  1992 legislative elections.
Few of the 32 were present to hear Ghitti's ruling.
Craxi sent a doctor's certificate from Hammamet, Tunisia, justifying his  absence on medical grounds.
