French and Finnish telecoms have won deals worth  300 million dollars to supply Lebanon with 500,000 cellular telephone lines,  in the latest move to help rebuild the country's war-shattered communications  network.
The cabinet authorised Posts and Telecommunications Minister Mohammad  Ghaziri to sign a 12-year build, operate and transfer (BOT) accord with France  Telecom and Finland Telecom, officials said Saturday.
Under the agreement, which is expected to be finalised in early June,  France Telecom and Finland Telecom will each install 250,000 cellular phone  lines, the officials said.
They will install an additional 100,000 phone lines once the initial  agreement is completed, the officials added.
Each firm is expected to install 30,000 phone lines within six months  after the deal is signed, with the priority given to the Lebanese capital and  its suburbs.
The cost of a cellular phone line is estimated at around 500 dollars in  addition to a monthly subscription charge of 18 to 20 dollars. Phone calls  will cost about three US cents per minute.
Officials said Finland Telecom was expected to purchase some of its  equipment from the US firm Motorola and the giant German company Siemens.
Earlier this year the Lebanese government awarded 380 million dollars in  contracts to French, German and Swedish firms to replace and extend the  telephone network in the country.
France's Alcatel, Germany's Siemens and Sweden's Ericsson are currently  involved in a project to create one million telephone lines in Lebanon.
In February the French consultancy firm Deloitte et Touche won a  2.1-million-dollar contract to study the reorganisation of Lebanon's  telecommunications ministry, as part of a deal financed by the World Bank.
Telecommunications were devastated during the 1975-1990 civil year war,  forcing the Lebanese to seek alternative services provided by private  operators who work illegally.
Cellular phones lines exist in Lebanon, where correspondents, including  most businesses, government officials and state institutions, normally dial a  New York telephone number just to talk to someone a few blocks away.
The deal with France Telecom and Finland Telecom will legalise the use of  such phone lines.
