Members of the UN Security Council  intensified discussions Friday on plans to send 5,500 soldiers to Rwanda as  part of a UN humanitarian mission, diplomats said.
The rotating president of the council, Ibrahim Gambari of Nigeria, said a  resolution could be approved later in the day.
The proposed reinforcement of the UN Mission to aid Rwanda, which was  reduced to only 270 members last month, followed recommendations by UN  Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
He sought a review of the UN mandate to respond to the humantiarian  emergency in Rwanda, which has been plunged into chaos by bloody ethnic  fighting that erupted following the death of Rwanda's president Juvenal  Habyarimana April 6 in a suspicious plane crash.
A working group composed of several Security Council members met Friday  morning to draft a resolution which was to be considered in consultations with  the full council several hours later.
Several points of the draft must still be discussed, notably a reference  to the notion of "genocide" in Rwanda and possible international trials of  people accused of atrocities, diplomats said.
Another point was the possibility that the UN peacekeepers could resort to  force to protect civilians in so-called humanitarian securty zones, they said.
The Security Council also was expected to impose an arms embargo on  Rwanda, where an estimated 200,000 people have been killed in the fighting.
Earlier on Friday in Paris, Jacques-Roger Booh Booh, the UN special  representative to Rwanda said the UN priority was to reach a ceasefire between  rebels and government soldiers before undertaking any political negotiations.
"For now, it is difficult to resume political negotiations so long as  there is no ceasefire," Booh Booh said following a meeting with UN Secretary  General Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
"A ceasefire is theoretically possible but certain conditions must be  fulfilled" first, he said referring to the Tutsi rebels' refusal to recognize  the transitional government set up following the death of Habyarimana.
