Colombians go to the polls Sunday to elect a new  president under unusual circumstances: outgoing President Cesar Gaviria is so  popular that candidates are pledging to follow his policies.
Gaviria, 47, whose four-year term ends in August, has a popularity rating  of about 60 percent because his negotiations with rebels sharply reduced the  number of bloody car-bombings in the capital and a two-pronged attack of  leniency and tough pursuit broke the Medellin cocaine cartel.
Leading the polls are Ernesto Samper, a 43-year-old with Gaviria's Liberal  Party, and Andres Pastrana, a 39-year-old with the Conservative Party. The  Liberal and Conservative Parties, in one form or another, have dominated this  Andean nation since the 19th century.
Samper and Pastrana have been polling at about 45 percent. If neither  receives 50 percent of the vote, a runoff will be held on June 19.
The polls also put former M-19 guerrilla leader and Gaviria's former  health minister Antonio Navarro in third place with about 5 percent of the  vote.
If there is a surprise, it will come from retired general Miguel Maza, the  former head of the secret police, and the sworn enemy of Pablo Escobar, the  head of the Medellin cocaine cartel shot dead by police six months ago.
He has been polling, however, at just short of three percent with the  remaining few percentage points divided among 15 other candidates.
Unlike other elections where change has been what voters sought, Gaviria's  would-be successors have been pledging to follow in his policy footsteps.
Pablo Escobar's dramatic surrender in June 1991 and the subsequent  dismantling of the Medellin cartel was the high-water mark of Gaviria's  administration and a vindication of his decision not to extradite drug  kingpins to the United States if they agree to surrender.
The policy worked, and drug-related violence dropped despite Escobar's  escape in July 1992. Colombian police pursued him for 18 months before he was  killed in a shootout with security forces.
Gaviria has had less success defeating the Cali cocaine cartel.
Another defeat for Gaviria has been his relative lack of success in making  peace with the country's two largest rebel movements: the Army of National  Liberation and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia.
Gaviria began talks almost as soon as he took power in 1990 with periodic  meetings around Colombia and in Venezuela and Mexico.
But to no avail; about 10,000 guerrillas are believed to be operating in  Colombia. The president himself has estimated that 512 of Colombia's 1,038  cities have some rebel presence.
In addition to drug and rebel violence, right-wing groups and common crime  bring Colombia's murder rate to 25,000 in 1993 in a nation of 33.5 million or  about seven killings per 10,000 people.
Still, Colombia's economic growth has been solid by Latin American  standards with Gaviria's policies of reducing protectionism, although his  administration has been accused of neglecting social ills, especially gaps in  health care delivery and the education system.
But overall he remains so politically strong that even as a lame-duck,  Gaviria took on Colombia's constitutional court when it recently  de-criminalized possession of small amounts of illegal narcotics.
No matter who wins the vote, Gaviria's shadow will loom large. The  president himself, however, will be in Washington. He has taken the post of  secretary general of the Organization of American States.
