A little boy screamed as he arrived at the Kigali  Red Cross hospital, covered in shrapnel wounds. Another boy's foot was wrapped  in a blood-soaked cloth and a one-month-old baby came in a cardboard box, his  face riddled with cuts.
The children, a group of eight brought to the hospital, were out alone on  the streets when the shell landed. No one knows where their parents are, or  whether they are even alive.
The eight were the latest victims in Rwandan's bloody conflict between  majority Hutus and minority Tutsis, which has left tens of thousands of people  dead since President Juvenal Habyarimana was killed in a suspicious plane  crash on April 6.
The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) set up its field  hospital soon afterwards, in a boarding school at the centre of the Rwandan  capital.
It runs the place with the help of the Paris-based medical aid group  Medecins sans Frontieres (Doctors without Borders - MSF), mustering a staff of  eight foreigners and 125 local volunteers.
The hospital receives about 90 wounded people a week and currently has  about 260 patients, including 50 children, administrator Andre Musy explained.
The Red Cross has also opened a station near Gitarama, about 40 kilometres  (25 miles) south-west of Kigali, and supplies the city's main hospital with  medical supplies brought from neighbouring Burundi, or flown in from further  afield when the airport is not being bombed.
At the crowded main hospital, a little further up the hill, there are  about 1,200 civilian wounded and "a great number of soldiers," said Musy.
Even at the field hospital, they have set up tents on all the lawns to  cope with the large numbers.
Arrows on the wall point the way to the bomb shelters, which have already  been used several times.
Some tents, wedged between an embankment and a wall to protect them from  shells, are reserved for the children who have suffered every injury --  amputation, rape, beatings, bullet and shell wounds and machete cuts.
One little girl has only one arm, another boy's leg is cut below the knee.
"One day they brought us two children who had been playing together,"  remembered Rene, an MSF organiser. "One child had both feet cut off, the other  both hands."
Rene sang the children a rhyme in the Rwandan language Kinyarwanda. They  joined in, at first shyly, and smiled as they grew bolder.
"A child that smiles is a battle won," said Rene. "It is hard to win with  these children, most of whom have seen their families massacred."
The hospital's biggest problem right now is the water shortage, according  to ICRC delegation chief Philippe Gaillard. There is no running water in  Kigali, because of a shortage of aluminium sulphate which helps cut down  impurities.
"If we use the muddy water without this product, the plumbing will get  blocked up very quickly," said Gaillard. In the meantime, "everyone must make  economies and draw water where they can."
Big tanks have been set up under the gutters to catch rainwater and search  parties are being sent to the edges of the city.
Some of the hospital's wounded stay on even after recovery, homeless or  fearful of further massacres. Those who find a refuge leave. The Red Cross  does not chase the others away.
