Queen Beatrix was expected Saturday to formally  appoint three party officials to negotiate a broad coalition government for  the Netherlands, thrown into political turmoil after this month's general  election.
The Christian Democrats (CDA), who have dominated the political scene for  most of this century, lost 20 seats in the vote on May 3, retaining only 34 in  the 150-seat lower house of parliament.
Their partners in the last government, the Social Democrats (PVDA), lost  12 seats but became the biggest parliamentary party with 37 seats. The  right-wing Liberal Democrats (VVD) gained nine seats, putting their tally to  31, while the left-wing Democrats '66 (D66) party doubled its score to 24  seats.
The negotiators will be Klaus de Vries for the PVDA, Gijs van Aardenne for  the VVD and Jan Vis for D66, a statement from the palace said late Friday.
De Vries, director general of the federation of Dutch local councils since  1988. A lawyer, who has worked in the justice ministry, he was a member of  parliament from 1973 to 1988.
Van Aardenne is a former minister of the economy, who was also deputy  prime minister in the first cabinet of Ruud Lubbers from 1982 to 1986.
Vis has chaired the D66 parliamentary group in the Senate, of which he has  been a member since 1980. A former journalist, he teaches constitutional law  at the university of Groningue.
If the negotiators manage to reconcile the differences between their  respective parties, they will present a final report to the Queen, who will  then decide who should be asked to form a government and possibly become the  country's next prime minister.
The left-right coalition, if it comes off, will be the first time the  Christian Democrats have been left out of power for 75 years.
Analysts said however that despite the goodwill expressed on all sides, it  would not be easy to set up because of wide differences of view on certain  issues, notably social security.
If negotiations break down, there are two possible scenarios: to bring  back the outgoing Christian Democrat-Socialist coalition with the addition of  the D66 Liberals, or an alliance between the Christian Democrats with the VVD  and D66.
