Senior Thai officials confirmed Wednesday that US  anti-narcotics authorities have linked several Thai politicians to the illicit  drug trade.
They gave no names or numbers, but local dailies said 17 politicans, 10 of  them currently in office, were on the list and three had been denied US visas.
Foreign Minister Prasong Soonsiri told reporters "several local and  national" politicians were on a US Embassy-supplied list of drug trade  suspects.
Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai said Tuesday's cabinet meeting had concerned  "the fact that there are some politicians, at several levels," involved in the  drug trade.
The list, compiled during the past two years, included names of officials  allegedly active in the drug trade from 1973 to 1987, he added.
News reports said Prasong told the cabinet 10 opposition members of  parliament were on the list.
Prasong said he had sent letters detailing the allegations to the Office  of the Narcotics Control Board (ONCB), Thailand's anti-drug agency, and the  Interior Ministry, which oversees the police, the reports said.
Both Chuan and Prasong said Wednesday evening the issue was now the  reponsibility of police.
The US embassy, the ONCB and the foreign and interior ministries all  declined comment Wednesday.
Prasong was expected to testify Thursday before parliament's House Affairs  Committee.
Observers said the new press leak likely would elicit more claims by some  members of parliament that Chuan's five-party coalition government was trying  to stave off a no-confidence vote in parliament.
Some opposition members protested earlier this month when news surfaced  from an anonymous source that the United States had accused Thanong  Sirireechapong, a member of the main opposition Chart Thai party, of drug  smuggling.
The US embassy later confirmed Thanong had been indicted in California in  1991 on charges he smuggled more than 45 tons of marijuana to the United  States over a 14-year period from 1973.
Chuan said then that Thai law prevents the prosecution of Thais for drug  crimes committed in other countries and he would not extradite anyone for  trial elsewhere.
