North Korea has allowed international inspectors to  take samples of nuclear material from a reprocessing facility suspected of  helping produce nuclear weapons, officials at the International Atomic  Energecy Agency (IAEA) said Wednesday.
The officials said the samples should allow the IAEA to determine whether  plutonium has been manufactured or diverted from a nuclear reactor at the  facility in Yongbyon, 90 kilometres (55 miles) north of the North Korean  capital Pyongyang, possibly for use in making nuclear bombs.
The IAEA inspectors were refused access in March to the reprocessing  facility, which the North Koreans call a radio-chemistry laboratory.
The IAEA team at the time observed that a second reprocessing facility was  under construction in the compound which could enable North Korea to double  its capacity to produce plutonium.
IAEA spokesman Hans-Friedrich Meyer said Wednesday that one member of the  three-man inspection team sent to Yongbyon had left North Korea, while the  other two returned to Pyongyong for talks between North Korean officials and  two senior IAEA envoys who arrived in the North Korean capital Tuesday.
The envoys were sent to discuss North Korea's decision to begin unloading  nuclear fuel from an experimental five-megawatt nuclear reactor also located  in the Yongbyon compound before the IAEA inspectors had arrived.
The talks, which were expected to continue through Thursday, were focusing  on measurements of fuel rods taken from the reactor.
The IAEA said last Thursday that North Korea had begun extracting the  spent fuel rods in a "serious violation" of IAEA inspection terms and that it  would inform the UN Security Council for possible punitive sanctions.
The IAEA officials said that while the agency's inspectors had not been  able to carry out all the investigations orginally scheduled for March, they  had reached "more than half" their objectives and were satisfied with the  access granted them by the North Koreans.
The inspectors had notably been able to check radiation levels within the  Yongbyon compound, giving them an indication of movements of fissible material  inside the facility.
In the nuclear reactor unit itself, however, they had simply been permitted  to replace film and batteries in surveillance cameras installed during an  earlier mission, they said.
On Friday, the agency rejected a North Korean proposal to keep fuel rods  from the controversial reactor in a "safe place under seal" ahead of a  resumption of talks on the issue, saying it would inhibit verification that no  nuclear material had been diverted for military use.
The IAEA wants to measure the fuel rods to determine how long they have  been in the reactor and thereby calculate whether any plutonium could have  been diverted for military purposes.
The United States suspects North Korea of diverting some of its nuclear  fuel for military purposes, a charge denied by the government in Pyongyang.
In other developments Wednesday, North Korea denounced the "discriminatory  nature" of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and called for the "total  abolition" of all existing nuclear weapons, the North Korean KCNA new agency  reported, citing a foreign ministry communique.
North Korea suspended its adherence to the non-proliferation treaty in  September 1993 following mounting international pressure for inspections to be  conducted at its nuclear sites.
