US Secretary of State Warren Christopher set off  for the newly-autonomous enclave of Jericho on Tuesday for talks with  Palestinian leaders and a tour of a ruined Moslem palace, officials said.
The secretary was the first foreign dignitary to tour the West Bank oasis  since Israeli forces pulled out on Friday in line with the PLO autonomy deal.
Faisal Husseini, who will sit on the self-governing authority for the Gaza  Strip and Jericho, was to lead the Palestinian delegation.
Christopher was to tour Hisham's Palace, built in the eight century, and  today set in fields on the edge of the town, the lowest in the world at 250  metres below sea level (840 feet) and reputed to be the oldest.
He met Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in Jerusalem on Monday night after  arriving from Syria with reactions to Israel's latest peace package, and the  two men were scheduled to have further talks on Tuesday.
The secretary was also due to see Foreign Minister Shimon Peres.
"Yes, there are (Syrian) reactions to proposals that are going back and  forth," the secretary told reporters on the flight to Tel Aviv after meetings  in Damascus with President Hafez al-Assad and Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara.
The visit to Syria came just two weeks after Christopher took Israel's  peace package to Assad -- a phased withdrawal linked to security arrangements  on the strategic plateau captured in the 1967 Middle East war in return for  total peace.
"Each element is scrutinized with very great care," the secretary said.  The two sides were "exchanging ideas and probing each other on very early  aspects but very important aspects."
"We are at the beginning of a very serious process," said a US official  who refused to be named. They are clearly seriously engaged in this process."
The official said Assad still insisted on total Israeli withdrawal from  the Golan, but noted that the Syrian press had been "more positive" over the  weekend.
The official Syrian press called for a rapid Israeli withdrawal from the  Golan Heights, urging an "acceptable and reasonable" pullout timetable.
