South Korean ambassador for nuclear affairs, Kim  Sam-Hoon, has left for Washington for consultations with American officials on  North Korea's suspected nuclear-arms program, a foreign ministry spokesman  said Saturday.
Kim left here late Friday for a four-day stay in the United States, where  he will meet with Assistant Secretary of State Robert Gallucci and other US  officials to discuss the latest developments in the row over North Korea's  nuclear status.
Their talks will focus on coordinating US and South Korean efforts to  persuade North Korea to allow full international inspections of its suspected  nuclear facilities and reactor fuel rods.
Kim's Washington visit came as US and South Korean officials sounded an  optimistic note over the prospect of a negotiated settlement of the more than  year-long nuclear standoff.
A three-member team from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has  confirmed that North Korea started removing used fuel rods from a five  megawatt reactor in Yongbyon in "serious violation" of IAEA inspection terms.
Gallucci, Washington's chief negotiator on North Korean nuclear affairs,  told journalists in Washington Friday that the removed fuel rods had not been  diverted for weapons but stacked in storage tanks.
IAEA inspections of other nuclear facilities were being carried out  smoothly, he said.
But North Korea has not responded to the IAEA's demand that the  replacement of fuel rods be stopped immediately to enable the IAEA to select  and segregate some of the rods for future testing.
The IAEA was to send a team of senior officials to Pyongyang soon to iron  out differences over the issue, Gallucci was quoted as saying by South Korean  newspapers.
Gallucci's remarks came a day after Foreign Minister Han Sung-Joo said in  Hanoi that despite North Korea's solo start to the refuelling, chances of a  peaceful solution were still good.
Han was quoted as telling Korean journalists that there was a "high"  likelihood of a US-North Korea high-level meeting should North Korea agree  with the IAEA on the selection and segregating of the used fuel rods.
