From Drumochter to Killiecrankie, from  Scrabster to Dunvegan on the Isle of Skye, Scots will be recharging their  glasses and dabbing their eyes in celebration of the 500th birthday of Scotch  whisky on Saturday.
The nation, known to be partial to a dram, will be split between nostalgia  and shouting "Down the hatch" as it collectively fills its glasses with the  "water of life" -- the world's leading sprit drink -- which contains a minimum  40 percent volume of alcohol.
Judging by the consumption levels, it could indeed be life giving.
"Of every 10 bottles of spirits drunk around the world, more than four are  Scotch," said Campbell Evans, a spokesman for the Scotch Whisky Association.  Twenty two bottles are sold overseas every second.
Scotch whisky is Scotland's number one net export earner and one of the  top five foreign exchange earners in Britain. Over 2,000 brands are exported  to 190 countries, bringing in around 2.093 billion pounds a year.
In Britain, the industry employs 15,000 people directly and 55,000  indirectly.
The earliest documented record of whisky was in 1494, when the Scottish  Exchequer Roll Number 305 listed the "delivery of eight bolls of malt to Friar  John Cor wherewith to make aquavitae".
Aqua vitae is, of course, the water of life: in Gaelic "uisge beatha" or  whisky.
To the Celts the power of the fiery liquid, made from malted barley, water  and yeast with the flavour taken from malt and the oak casks used for  maturation, was a gift to revive ailing sprits, drive out chills and sometimes  relieve colic.
The greatest concentration of whisky distilleries is on Speyside, between  Aberdeen and Inverness and on the west Coast, including some of the islands.
Although, Scotch whisky now sells more in one month in France than Cognac  does in one year, the industry went into decline in the 1970s after basic  mismanagement.
It was finally stirred into action in the early 1980s, when the "whisky  loch" rose -- or, rather, overflowed resulting in mass closures throughout the  industry.
Between 1983 and 1985, 28 malt distilleries, and three grain distilleries  were closed leaving a total of 90.
Since then, armies of market researchers have been drafted in to revive  the industry in the belief that the future is in the younger markets.
Most of the effort has gone into opening up new markets for example in  Greece, rather than slowing the decline of the old.
Cocktails with traditional names and new mixes such as Highland Fling and   McToddy have superceeded the traditional Whisky Sour.
Last year, the US market grew in volume for the first time in 10 years,  but this was apparently due more to a realisation that moderate alcohol  consumption is not bad for you, than any marketing scheme.
In 1993, the US was the largest single market for whisky, taking 14  percent of whisky exports and consuming 40.4 million litres of pure alcohol  with a value of 280 million pounds.
Elsewhere, 40 percent of Scotch exports go to other European Union member  states, while Britain, the world's second largest single market takes just 13  percent.
In a perverse bit of reverse nationalism, the British government taxes  Scotch at twice the rate of wine, and more heavily than any other country in  the EC except Denmark and Ireland.
Since 1979, British consumption has dropped 30 percent.
But Evens, however, predicts optimistically that with new markets in Asia  and in Eastern Europe, and a new awareness within the industry, that the  future of whisky is ensured for another 500 years.
