Nigerian hopes of following up their Nations'  Cup triumph with a unique African club treble remain on course after the  quarter-final draws in Cairo.
Champions Iwuanyanwu Nationale were paired with Esperance, a Tunisian club  who they defeated at the same stage of the premier competition four years' ago.
And if Nationale succeed, they will play Mouloudia Oran of Algeria or Vita  of Zaire for a place in the final, which Nigeria have reached three times  without managing to lift the trophy.
Iwuanyanwu avoided holders Zamalek and the club the Egyptians succeeded as  champions, Wydad Casablanca of Morocco, who look set for a quarter-final  collision.
The North African showdown will unfold provided Wydad eliminate Sogara of  Gabon in a second-round tie postponed to August because of Morocco's World Cup  preparations.
In the Cup Winners' Cup, BCC Lions are attempting to become the first  Nigerian club to win the Nelson Mandela Cup twice, their previous triumph came  in 1990.
After a first round scare from ASFBD of Burkina Faso, the Lions bared  their teeth against Algerians Hussein Dey, winning convincingly at home and  away.
The next opponents are DC Motema Pembe of Zaire, an experienced outfit but  narrow winners over lightweight opponents from the Central African Republic  and Sierra Leone.
Victory for the Lions could set up a semi-final date with Canon Yaounde of  Cameroon, the only other former holders among the survivors, and probably the  biggest threat.
Bendel Insurance are attempting to win the CAF Cup, a competition for  league runners-up, one year after bringing the West African Football Union Cup  back to Nigeria.
Insurance had less luck than their compatriots, being matched with  Algerian championship pacesetters US Chaouia, who put six goals past Olympic  of Niger in a second round game.
But Algeria often struggle in the quarter-finals because the cup ties are  staged during their close season, and with home advantage first, Bendel should  establish a winning lead.
