France and Germany's leaders meet at Mulhouse,  eastern France, Monday and Tuesday for the 63rd Franco-German summit with  thoughts more than ever dominated by electoral prospects at home.
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl is facing a tough re-election battle in  October, while French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur is widely expected to  run for the French presidency which comes up in early 1995.
A German source, who asked to remain anonymous, said that ahead of  critical elections in both France and Germany, both parties will "have their  thoughts elsewhere" during the summit.
French President Francois Mitterrand, who will also be at the summit, is  for once a candidate for nothing and could seek to use the meeting to stamp  his mark again on Franco-German relations.
Having served France twice as president, Mitterrand, 74, is now nearing  the end of his long political career and sees the Franco-German alliance as  one of his key monuments.
Mitterrand is keen to use the summit to set the seal on the alliance by  deciding on a common position on economic cooperation ahead of other  international meetings in the next few months.
This will be seen first at the European Union leaders' summit in Corfu,  Greece, at the end of June, then at the Group of Seven meeting in Italy in  July and most crucially in the successive French and German presidencies of  the European Council, starting with the German presidency on July 1.
The summit will see "the creation of a high level working group which will  be charged, during the year from July 1, with assuring a perfect coordination  between our two countries," Mitterrand's spokesman Jean Musitelli said.
Europe's recent monetary troubles, the GATT trade disagreements, and the  uncertainties linked to ratification of the Maastricht Treaty and problems of  bringing in four new members to the union -- Austria, Finland, Norway and  Sweden -- are "squalls which are behind us," Musitelli said.
The "signs of a end to the period of stagnation or recession are there,  still fragile, certainly, but real" and "the turnaround in the economic  situation is undeniable."
The moment has come to "start off again on the long-term job of deepening  the European Union and organising Europe in the wide sense."
German government spokesman Dieter Vogel confirmed that Paris and Bonn  intended to coordinate their successive presidencies of the Union. The two  would also study the main issues worrying Europe at the moment --  unemployment, competitivity and economic development.
Musitelli said France and Germany want "to put the accent on the European  growth initiative and the implementation of the White book" adopted at the  Brussels summit, a reference to the jobs and spending plan produced by the  French president of the European Commission, Jacques Delors.
There was a "strong desire" to "bring to fruition at Corfu, the European  infrastructure plans which are ripe and ready to be financed," Musitelli said.
A further push could be given to the planned extension of the fast TGV  rail line between France and Germany, possibly going eventually into central  Europe.
A recent ministerial level meeting approved 60 percent government  financing of the project, Musitelli said, hoping that the European Union would  approve the necessary credits in line with plans set out in the White Book.
