Battered and bedraggled Rwandan soldiers started  fleeing the embattled capital Kigali on Thursday as rebels appeared on the  verge of taking the city despite an agreement to open ceasefire talks,  military sources in Kigali said.
A special United Nations envoy meanwhile said the rebel Rwanda Patriotic  Front (RPF) had agreed to open discussions about a ceasefire with the army on  Monday, a UN spokesman said.
The army has already agreed to the principle of a ceasefire to allow the  UN to fly desperately needed food and medicine to the survivors of a six-week  bloodbath in which up to half a million of Rwanda's seven million people are  estimated to have been butchered.
"The commanders of both sides have accepted the proposal of the special  representative of the secretary-general to open ceasefire talks," spokesman  Abdul Kabia told AFP by telephone from Kigali.
"These talks will be held in Kigali and will start Monday. The top  commanders will not come, but will be represented at staff level by their  deputies," Kabia said.
Kabia said an army brigadier and a rebel commander would attend the  UN-mediated meeting.
But UN military sources and diplomats said that with the rebel takeover of  Kigali imminent, and demoralised government soldiers short of ammunition and  starting to join a massive exodus of terrified civilians from the capital, the  discussions may come after the effective end of a three-year civil war.
Rebels pounded government forces with artillery and mortar fire after the  UN envoy Iqbal Riza left Kigali to meet rebel leader Paul Kagame in his  northern stronghold of Mulindi, Kabia said.
But the fighting tapered off as Riza's convoy returned to the capital in  the afternoon.
The UN military sources meanwhile reported that army commanders and some  ordinary soldiers were starting to join thousands of terrified Hutus streaming  out of Kigali on foot.
"Rumours that the city is about to fall are spreading and people are  scared of retaliation for the killings of Tutsis," said a UN official,  speaking on condition of anonymity.
The official estimated that a rebel victory was "a few more days away."
Minority Tutsis dominate the rebel movement, led by Rwandan exiles who fled  to Uganda to escape ethnic massacres in the runup to independence from Belgium  in 1962.
Kabia, speaking by telephone from Kigali, said the RPF had agreed to meet  army commanders Monday to discuss a ceasefire.
But a senior Western diplomat familiar with Rwanda said the battle-weary  government forces "could simply be forced to surrender."
"They're short of ammunition, their morale is low, their government has  run away to a town outside the capital, and they're scared of taking the blame  for the massacres," a UN military source in Kigali said.
The rebel agreement to discuss ceasefire terms nevertheless signalled a  breakthrough for Riza, but the rebels still oppose the planned deployment of  5,500 UN peacekeepers in Rwanda and demand a maximum of 2,500.
The UN, condemned by aid agencies for withdrawing all but 400 of its 2,500  soldiers from Rwanda after president Juvenal Habyarimana's death in an alleged  April 6 rocket attack on his plane, is struggling anyway to muster the planned  new force.
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali complained Wednesday that the  world had turned its back on the "genocide" in Rwanda and member-states were  reluctant to risk their soldiers in the small central African country.
Riza was to leave Rwanda on Friday to review another heavily criticised UN  peacekeeping operation in Somalia's anarchic capital Mogadishu, where the  failure of tens of thousands of foreign soldiers to end factional fighting has  dampened enthusiasm for another perilous mission in Africa.
The killing fields of Rwanda have spilled over into neighbouring  countries, hit by an influx of hundreds of thousands of refugees.
Uganda has declared a disaster zone on the shores of Lake Victoria, where  tens of thousands of bloated and decomposing corpses are washing up from the  Kagera river, raising fears of epidemics and concern about a possible health  hazard from eating contaminated fish.
