Rwandan government and rebel forces pledged late  Sunday to observe a two-day truce during the visit of a special United Nations  envoy to the war-torn country, UN military officials said.
Abdul Kabia, spokesman for the United Nations Assistance Mission in Rwanda  (UNAMIR) said UNAMIR had called on both sides to cease hostilities during the  visit of UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali's special envoy Iqbal  Riza, who is due in Kigali Monday.
Both sides "gave their agreement Sunday night", Kabia added.
The accord came hours after the mainly Tutsi rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front  (RPF) seized Kigali airport and the nearby Camp Kanombe barracks from  Hutu-dominated government troops in a decisive move for control of the  capital, Kabia said.
Riza's brief is to obtain both sides' cooperation over the new UNAMIR  mandate, which will see the UN force increased from its current 400-odd troops  to up to 5,500.
He is due to discuss its implementation with representatives of both sides  during his two-day visit.
Last Tuesday the UN Security Council voted to up the UNAMIR contingent in  a bid to tackle the country's massive humanitarian crisis.
Between 200,000 and 500,000 Rwandans are estimated to have been  slaughtered in the ethnic bloodbath which erupted following the April 6 death  of Hutu president Juvenal Habyarimana in a suspected rocket attack on his  plane.
At least two million people have been made homeless by the fighting,  including some 300,000 who have taken refuge in neighbouring Tanzania.
No UN flights have managed to land at Kigali airport since Thursday due to  clashes raging in the area.
Kabia said the mainly-Hutu Rwandan army appeared to have abandoned its  positions Sunday around the airport, where it had stationed anti-aircraft guns.
He said however that the army chief of staff denied that his men had been  chased out of the airport and said that they had left their positions in  response to a UN demand that the airport be made neutral territory.
Kabia added that sporadic heavy weapons fire was continuing around the  police barracks at Kacyiru in the north of the city.
RFP spokesman James Rwego said Sunday that following the capture of the  airport, shipments of humanitarian aid would be easier and the RPF would not  obstruct them.
Neither side has opposed the UN adopting a humanitarian role, but both  have warned against the deployment of a UNAMIR force to separate them.
