Rwandan rebel and army commanders began UN-mediated  truce talks in the capital Kigali on Monday, amid heavy fighting which stopped  UN troops from evacuating civilians and pessimism about ceasefire prospects.
Gunfire erupted outside the UN headquarters at the Amahoro hotel minutes  before army Brigadier-General Marcel Gatsuinzi arrived in a white UN armoured  personnel carrier.
His armoured vehicle broke down 300 metres (yards) from the UN  headquarters, delaying the opening of the talks by 30 minutes as two other  APCs were sent to collect Gatsuinzi, accompanied by four senior army officers.
Colonel Frank Mugambage, representing the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front  (RPF), arrived a few minutes later and went into the talks, mediated by UN  deputy force commander Brigadier Henry Anyidoho of Ghana.
Despite UN assurances that both sides would cease fire during the first  face-to-face meeting of military commanders, the rebels pounded government  troops with artillery.
"It's a very tense situation here," said UN military spokesman Major  Jean-Guy Plante. "There's been heavy shelling and a lot of fighting."
Rebel spokesman Patrick Kayiranga said RPF guerrillas, drawn mainly from  the central African nation's Tutsi minority, had surrounded one of the last  government strongholds in Kigali.
The RPF forces were firing on the paramilitary police camp of Kacyiru with  mortar and small arms fire and the government forces inside were "running out  of ammunition," he said.
He added that the RPF would not agree to the signature of any truce pact  by army representative Gatsuinzi, because in the eyes of the rebels he was  only a colonel and not a brigadier-general.
Gatsuinzi had been promoted by a government the RPF refuses to recognise,  Kayiranga said, referring to the self-proclaimed interim administration formed  after Hutu president Juvenal Habyarimana was killed in a suspected rocket  attack on his plane on April 6.
Habyarimana's death plunged Rwanda into an orgy of bloodletting that has  claimed up to 500,000 lives, with the presidential guard and Hutu extremist  militias accused of exterminating Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
Spelling out rebel demands, Kayiranga said the RPF wants:
- the army to denounce the government on Rwandan radio,
- an end to the massacres,
- the closure of the Hutu extremist Milles Collines radio station, which  has incited the slaughter in its broadcasts,
- and the arrest by the regular army of the presidential guard and Hutu  militias.
UN officials privately expressed pessimism about prospects of any truce  coming out of the talks.
Plante said the United Nations had delayed plans to evacuate civilians  trapped behind the battle lines in Kigali to safe areas because the army and  the rebels had not provided assurances of security.
"It's all on hold because we still have to negotiate with the RPF and the  armed forces," Plante said.
The heaviest fighting was reported at the notorious Kadhafi Corner south  of the city on the road to Gitarama, where the government sought refuge last  month.
Rebels have advanced to within 10-kilometres (six miles) of Gitarama, and  have cut a possible escape route for the government to the southern town of  Butare, UN military sources said.
