Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomydin and  Chinese leaders called here Friday for expanded bilateral econonomic and trade  ties, saying current levels of Sino-Russian cooperation were falling short of  their potential.
Chernomyrdin held separate talks with Chinese counterpart Li Peng and  President Jiang Zemin, during which both sides hailed the development of  bilateral relations in recent years, while agreeing on the need to step up  economic ties by improving transport links and expanding border trade.
Pointing to the 31-percent jump in bilateral trade volume last year to 7.7  billion dollars, Li said the total was "far higher than the highest figure  recorded in trade between China and the former Soviet Union."
However, he added that the "present level is still far from (that)  desired," and urged the swifter development of economic ties, especially  between major Chinese and Russian firms.
Chernomyrdin arrived here Thursday for a four-day official visit -- the  first by a Russian premier since the collapse of the Soviet union in 1991.
Following their talks, the two premiers signed seven agreements, including  accords on a system for administering their 4,000 kilometre (2,500-mile)  border, the avoidance of double taxation, marine transport, and a protocol on  economic, scientific and technological cooperation.
Li and Chernomyrdin also stressed the importance of improving transport  links to support trade ties, calling for railways on both sides of their  eastern border to be connected.
Li accepted an invitation from his counterpart to visit Russia.
According to foreign ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin, the Chinese leaders  voiced some concerns during the talks over new visa restrictions imposed by  Moscow in January on Chinese nationals crossing the border.
While Beijing accepted that the Russian move was aimed at curbing an  influx of "unscrupulous speculators," Wu said the Chinese side felt the  operations of some legitimate Chinese firms were being unfairly restricted as  a result.
The Russian premier promised to review the situation when he returned home,  Wu said.
The visa issue, together with tariff increases, red tape and rising  Chinese export costs following January's currency unification, were blamed for  a 40-percent fall in the volume of bilateral trade in the first quarter of  this year.
However, Li was quick to downplay any problems.
"So long as both sides adopt a positive attitude and improve macro  regulations, these problems will be resolved gradually," Li told his  counterpart.
For his part, Chernomyrdin declared there were "no insurmountable  problems" facing the develpoment of bilateral ties and he dismissed  suggestions that China was seeking to fill the regional power vacuum left by  the former Soviet Union.
The two sides also agreed to develop cooperation in the field of military  technology, although the foreign ministry spokesman stressed that the scope  for cooperation was slight.
"China's defence budget is very small, so what we can do in this field is  very limited," Wu said.
The two premiers also discussed the need to move away from barter trade,  which currently accounts for some 70 percent of bilateral transactions.
"Both sides agreed to develop trade by gradually introducing the use of  convertible currency," Wu said, adding however that the transition from barter  to cash "cannot be made overnight."
During his talks with the Russian premier, Jiang, who is due to visit  Russia in September, described Chernomyrdin's visit as a "major event" that  would give new impetus to the growth of bilateral ties.
Chernomyrdin was scheduled to leave Beijing on Saturday for Shanghai and  will also visit the northeastern city of Dalian before returning home.
