The Israeli-Palestinian peace accord has redrawn  the strategic landscape in the Middle East, where Israel's neighbors are  concerned with the price of peace while the Gulf states are hoping for an  economic windfall, a study shows.
The International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS), in its Strategic  Survey 1993-1994 published here Monday, says peace talks between Israel and  the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), particularly on self-rule in Gaza  and Jericho, took the countries of the region "by surprise".
Arab leaders had given the "Palestinian problem" top priority, said the  report, and "suddenly the order has changed."
"The list of nations committed to supporting the PLO financially after the  Israeli withdrawal indicated that there were only modest contributions from  Arab nations," said the IISS.
Jordan in particular is concerned that creation of a Palestinian state  would "unsettle the Palestinian population in Jordan".
Amman "would not risk an immediate peace accord with Israel" before "Syria  makes a significant move in the negotiations with Israel", said the report.
Further complicating the situation, in the IISS assessment, is the fact  that "the Syrians also view (PLO chairman Yasser) Arafat and his actions with  great suspicion.
"Damascus feels that Israel, acting in collusion with Washington, intended  to isolate Syria," says the IISS survey, adding: "This idea, born of paranoia,  is far from the truth."
On the contrary, the United States would have Damascus playing "a central  role" in the region as a whole, says the report, citing the Geneva summit in  January between presidents Bill Clinton and Hafez Assad.
The main "sticking point" between Israel and Syria is "the amount of the  Golan Heights" -- captured by Israel in the 1967 six-day war -- "that is to be  returned to Syria," said the IISS.
"The larger the area demanded, the more extensive would be Israel's  demands for security arrangements."
The IISS noted an "endorsement" of the peace accords by the oil- and  gas-rich Gulf states, which it said were evidently hoping that "they would  themselves benefit from any peace dividend through trading links with Israel."
The report singles out talks between Israel and Qatar on "the possibility  of supply of natural gas" to Israel.
Another significant development the IISS cites in the Middle East is  Arafat's visit to Riyadh to "apologize" to King Fahd, who had reproched him  for having supported Iraqi President Saddam Hussein during the Gulf war.
Thanks to that visit, says the IISS, the PLO "could once again be assured  of Saudi financial support".
The report figures Saddam's "medium to long term survival" will depend on  a lifting of the trade sanctions that are slowly choking off his country's  economy.
A "rapprochement" between Baghdad and Tehran, says the IISS, is "causing  some concern among the Gulf states".
(Attention embargo)
