President Joaquin Balaguer, seeking a  seventh term in office, took the lead in Monday's general elections against  his immediate rival Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, who has complained of vote  fraud.
With 8.34 percent of the vote counted in early Tuesday, 87-year-old  Balaguer had 44 percent against Pena Gomez's 41 percent, the Central Election  Committee said.
An initial vote count announced earlier had put social democrat Pena  Gomez, 57, slightly in the lead.
It was expected to be a close race, with the most recent polls showing  Pena Gomez in the lead with 33 percent to 27 percent for Balaguer.
Balaguer was seeking his seventh presidential mandate, having ruled the  country for most of the time since the assassination of dictator Rafael  Trujillo in 1961.
Former president Juan Bosh, 81, of the Dominican Liberation Party, was in  third place, the committee added.
Of Haitian origin and aspiring to become the country's first black  president, Pena Gomez has charged the election committee with "blatant fraud"
At a press conference held prior to any official election result, Pena  Gomez
claimed that the committee had tampered with voter lists sent to the  interior of the country, preventing "thousands" of followers of his Dominican  Revolutionary Party (PRD) from casting their ballots.
He said that the 200,000 inhabitants of San Cristobal, 30 kilometers (19  miles) south of here, were under a virtual state of siege.
He also said that there had been a failed attempt on the lives of several  political leaders in Elias Pina, a town 300 kilometers (186 miles) west of  here on the Haitian border.
"Things in this country can get complicated and anything can happen," said  a PRD official who asked not to be identified.
To compensate for irregularities, the Central Election Committee extended  voting by an additional four hours until 10:20 p.m. Monday.
An estimated 3.3 million Dominicans were registered to vote for a  president, vice president, 30 senators, 120 deputies and 107 mayors.
