An unexpected end to the Philippines' power crisis  has left a lot of businessmen with idle generators on their hands.
Having cashed in on power cuts, the businessmen now talk about exporting  their once-treasured workhorses to Papua New Guinea, China and countries in  the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, where power is still in short  supply.
Others predict that the Philippines is about to become the single biggest  source of second-hand generators.
Many people were stunned at the speed which President Fidel Ramos and his  energy lieutenants moved to fulfill a promise to solve the outages, which had  averaged 10 hours daily over the past two years.
"Definitely, the power crisis is over," said Francisco Viray, head of the  state-owned National Power Corp. and a key player in the government's power  program.
Asked what Filipino businessmen should do with their generators, he shot  back: "Sell them."
Paul Joseph Garcia, an economist with the private Center for Research and  Communications, agreed that generators had become white elephants and that at  best, Manila could probably export them "at a loss."
The government's Board of Investments (BOI) said more than 5,000 generator  units had been brought into the country through the agency by the end of 1993.  These sets have a total capacity of 2,478 megawatts -- equivalent to about  seven large power plants.
Officials said the list did not include several thousand more generators,  whose papers were not coursed through the BOI.
"We didn't expect the outages to end so soon," said Mary Lourdes Keng,  product manager for generators at Motorcity commercial center here.
Motorcity sold only four units from January to May, even at 10 to 20  percent off their original price tags, compared to an average of 10 units per  day for most of 1993.
Businessmen have exuberantly welcomed the end to the power crisis, saying  the country now has the chance to finally catch up with its booming Southeast  Asian neighbours.
"At the height of the outages, we were just striving to survive using these  power generators as a bridge," said Herman Montenegro, president of the  Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the country's main business group.
"But now we are expanding. Our productivity will definitely go up," said  Montenegro, who predicted a 7.5 percent expansion of the Philippine economy  this year, higher than the 4.5 percent targetted by government.
