Thousands of Kurds have fled repression in  Turkey and crossed the mountains into northern Iraq, aid organisations said  here Sunday.
Some 4,200 Turkish Kurds have crossed the border since the beginning of  March, at a rate of around 20 families each day. Most of them crossed in the  past four weeks, said Hannes Kempman from the German aid association HAD.
"Altogether we have counted 4,203 people so far," he told AFP.
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the UN children's  organisation UNICEF met Saturday in the border town of Dahuk to launch an  action programme with other non-governmental organisations working in the area.
"We have decided to start supplying them with food, water sanitation and  medical care," said the head of the UNHCR operation in northern Iraq,  Francesco Ardisson. They would be treated as refugees.
Ardisson said it had not been decided where they would be sheltered, but  the UNHCR was going to try to find a place further from the border with Turkey.
Half are currently staying in the border towns of Zakho or Dohuk where  they have been housed in public buildings or rented houses, while the rest are  in Sheranesh, a village 20 kilometres (12 miles) northeast of Zakho.
Zinin Yunis, 30, who reached northern Iraq 15 days ago, said she left her  Turkish village near Ulludere "because the Turkish army bombed it several  times."
She left with her five-year-old son who lost his left eye while fleeing  through the mountains. "We were fired on by a helicopter," Yunis said.
Hassan Yilmaz, 34, who comes from a village close to Diyarbakir in the  southeast Anatolia region of Turkey, said he had decided to flee with his wife  and four children "because the Turkish army wanted us to fight against the  (Kurdistan Workers Party) PKK."
"Some of my friends who refused were already dead or in prison. Therefore  I preferred to flee."
The worst clashes between the PKK and the Turkish security forces have  been in the Kurdish-majority Anatolia area, where the PKK is fighting for an  independent state.
Northern Iraq has been under Kurdish control since an autonomous region  was established with the backing of the US-led coalition after the 1991 Gulf  war.
