Bakili Muluzi, the jovial, 51-year-old  businessman who defeated Malawi's ruler Kamuzu Banda at the polls on Thursday,  could scarely present a more striking contrast to the nonagenarian president.
Muluzi seems the antithesis of Banda, even in his failings. Cheery and  chubby, he is an unashamed populist who would never shy from a walkabout among  his people or from making extravagant election promises.
His detractors have dubbed him Muluzi Six Pounds and His Excellency the  Thief, alluding to a six-month jail sentence he served 25 years ago for  stealing six pounds sterling.
But it is water off a duck's back to Muluzi, who has all but erased the  memory of the six years he served in the Banda administration as one of the  president's aides.
He was briefly education minister, in 1976, and rose to the rank of  secretary general of Banda's ruling Malawi Congress Party (MCP) in 1983,  before serving as vice president of Malawi's chamber of commerce.
Banda, officially 89 since Saturday but rumoured to be at least 93, has  surrounded himself with a sycophantic court and rituals worthy of an absolute  monarch, remote from ordinary people in the impoverished southern African  nation.
President since Malawi became a republic in 1966, Banda turned the country  into a one-party state until two years ago, when domestic upheaval, foreign  pressure and a referendum forced political pluralism on him.
In 1971 Banda had himself voted president-for-life, leaving a stamp of  fear on a repressed nation where women -- even tourists -- were not allowed to  wear trousers, men were forbidden to grow their hair long and television  banned.
Muluzi, the head of the United Democratic Front (UDF) opposition party,  has promised a complete change of style, with the fight against poverty his  main objective.
A Moslem, where Banda was a member of the Church of Scotland, Muluzi is  described as a "politician, farmer, businessman and educationist" in his  official biography.
Born in a small village near Machinga in the south of Malawi, he graduated  from English and Danish universities and went into business, where he runs a  transport company. He is also president of the national truckers' association.
Though his political platform has not been clearly spelled out, Muluzi is  surrounded by high-flying aides, such as UDF vice-president Aleke Banda, and  enjoys unconditional support in the south, the most densely populated and  wealthy part of Malawi.
He is married with two children.
