report
BOSTON, Massachusetts, May 13 (AFP) - US war games that began in the  Caribbean and ended in North Carolina and Puerto Rico this week simulated an  invasion of Haiti, The Boston Globe said Friday.
Code-named Agile Provider, the military exercises involved 44,000 troops,  amphibious vessels, fighter jets and a submarine, unnamed military sources  told the daily.
They were planned with Haiti in mind, the sources said.
President Bill Clinton warned last week that he did not rule out a  military intervention to restore democracy in Haiti, and the UN Security  Council adopted his proposal to slap a full economic embargo on the former  French colony.
Although a White House source told the daily the military option was still  in the air, military sources said the exercises were intended to put the  option through a trial run to smooth out coordination problems.
And they could also be a sabre-rattling effort by the Clinton  administration to goad Haiti's military leaders into reinstating President  Jean-Bertrand Aristide, whom they overthrew in September 1991, the military  sources added.
The swearing in of an interim president by the Haitian Senate Wednesday,  however, appears to confirm the military's determination to resist all  pressures.
Organized by the Atlantic Command, based in Norfolk, Virginia, Agile  Provider included the Marines and Army Special Forces, some of whom landed by  submarine. Marine fighter jets flew more than 200 practice sorties during the  exercises, the sources said.
A spokesman for the command said the exercises had as a target a  fictitious country run by an "unfriendly leader" who had suddenly seized power.
The US military option for Haiti has received mixed reviews abroad.  Visiting French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said Thursday that his government  would not participate in such a venture. The French diplomat, however,  reiterated his condemnation of the military regime in Port-au-Prince and the  naming of interim president Emile Jonassaint, whom Juppe described as a  "puppet with no legitimacy."
He said France was working to enforce the latest Security Council  resolution calling for stiffer sanctions if the military refused to leave  power and restore democracy by May 21.
