The civil war in Yemen could lead to the  creation of an Iranian-style Islamic state which would threaten its Gulf  neighbours, a senior southern leader warned Tuesday.
Salim Saleh Mohammad, interviewed by the United Arab Emirates newspaper  Al-Ittihad, charged that Iraq and Sudan were involved in the fighting between  rival army units.
"What is going on now is a tribal project supported by international  Moslem fundamentalism which is seeking to establish its own state in Yemen,"  said the deputy leader of the southern Yemen Socialist Party (YSP).
"We are not surprised by the involvement of Sudan and fundamentalist  movements in supporting the project and seeking to liquidate all new bulges  that took shape as a result of Yemen's unity and democracy."
The north has rejected foreign mediation in the war, which erupted on May  5, on the grounds it was an internal affairs and demanded that southern  leaders either surrender or flee the country.
Warning Gulf states of the creation of a fundamentalist regime in Yemen,  Mohammad implicitly referred to Iran, which sought to export the Islamic  revolution following the overthrow of the pro-Western shah in 1979.
"I do not want to draw the attention of our brothers in the region to the  dangers of what is going on. I think they realise such dangers," he said.
"They realise the suffering caused by the regime in Sudan and other  regimes whose aim it is to export revolution and terrorism and to interfer in  the internal affairs of others."
Saudi Arabia and the other Gulf monarchies, repeatedly urging a halt to  the war, have not explicitly sided with President Ali Abdallah Saleh, a  northerner or his southern rival, Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid, head of  the YSP.
But they have been at odds with Saleh over his alleged support for Iraq  during the 1991 Gulf war.
Rival envoys from Yemen, which united in May 1990 between the conservative  North and Marxist South, have been touring Gulf and other Arab states to win  support.
Mohammad said there were large quantities of Iraqi weapons with northern  troops, charging Iraq backed a military solution in Yemen. There were also  Iraqi military experts in the northern republican guards and brigades.
But the south was ready to open a dialogue with the north, he reiterated,  warning that the war would drag on without peace efforts.
"The losses so far are large and horrible. They (north) are trying to hide  this fact from the people and the world," he said.
"Army brigades have been totally destroyed and there are big losses among  civilians in Daleh, Karsh, Abyan, Makiras, Sanaa and Omran. There are also  economic and social losses. God only knows their size."
Neither side has issued an official casualty toll for the conflict.
