Britain's Queen Elizabeth II said Tuesday she hoped  South Africa would soon be re-admitted to the Commonwealth, 33 years after  leaving over its racially-based apartheid policies.
Speaking at a state banquet at Buckingham Palace, the queen praised  visiting Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe for his role in ensuring the  peaceful transition to a black-governed democracy in South Africa.
"You personally played an active part in trying to ensure that change  there was peaceful; and last month, all South Africans were able to go to the  polls, a dignified and deeply moving climax to a campaign waged over many  years," she said.
"Now we hope that we shall shortly be able to welcome South Africa back  into the Commonwealth as its 51st member state," added the queen.
She was speaking to assembled guests including Prime Minister John Major,  Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd, the Duke of Edinburgh, the Duke of York,  Prince Edward and Princess Margaret.
Prince Philip visited South Africa for the inauguration of Nelson Mandela  as president and the queen should visit in the future.
The queen told Mugabe that under his leadership, Zimbabwe had shown what  could be achieved in Africa, a continent which had seen "some of the world's  most devastating internal conflicts."
"Africa is sometimes depicted by outsiders who do not know it well, as a  continent beyond hope," she said.
Many thousands of Rwandans had died in a "horrific civil war", many  African economies had gone backwards, plagued by war, debt, population growth  and loss of skilled labour through migration.
Disease was also taking a "dreadful toll" and the environment was being  seriously damaged and large areas of land turned into desert.
"But that is not the full story," she said. "It omits the courage and  determination of so many in the new Africa. The tragedy we see in Rwanda does  not extinguish the hope for orderly progress in Africa as a whole."
The queen promised that Britain would continue to work closely with  Zimbabwe through its aid programme amounting currently to 40 million pounds  (60 million dollars) a year and through defence advisers and trade.
Britain exports 100 million pounds (150 million dollars) worth of goods a  year to Zimbabwe, and imports 86 million.
(attention embargo)
