D-Day, California style.
There are no sharp steel pilings with mines strapped to them lying hidden  below the waterline.
There are no concrete bunkers housing deadly 88-millimeter cannons able to  tear through any ship caught in their sights.
There are no battalions of men crouched in trenches waiting to mow down  the invaders in a hail of machine gun fire.
Instead, a barrage of television lights, camera flashes and thousands of  curious onlookers await the "invaders" in this West Coast recreation of the  Normandy landings.
To commemorate the June 6, 1944 landing, the French consulate in Los  Angeles, together with the US Navy, will feature a small-scale D-Day  reenactment June 1 on the beaches of this Los Angeles suburb.
Baptized "Thanks America!", the operation will feature a melange of  WWII-era weapons backed up by present-day warships.
Once again, the roar of piston-fired aircraft will fill the air as 11 P-51  Mustang fighters and a B-26 light bomber scream over the beachhead.
Jeeps, tanks and a landing craft - wartime material now pressed into  service on Hollywood sets - along with 50 veterans of the original invasion,  will once again hit the sands.
Offshore, the French frigate Prairial, based in Tahiti, will join up with  the US warship Copeland and a US Coast Guard vessel. The Prairial will fire  salvos honoring the allied soldiers.
"This is not a show," said Jean-Maurice Ripert, French general consul in  Los Angeles. "It's a ceremony of remembrance..." he added.
The Santa Monica invasion, according to him, will be distinguished from  the June 4 reenactment in Chicago, Illinois. Chicago plans call for some 500  figures dressed in US and German uniforms to recreate the invasion.
In California, Mrs. Omar Bradley, the widow of Gen. Omar Bradley one of  the leading US generals in the European Theater of Operations, David  Eisenhower, the grandson of Dwight D. Eisenhower, supreme allied commander in  Europe, Pete Wilson, governor of California, and General Claude Kicklighter,  director of the American committee of the 50th anniversary commemoration, will  preside over the operation.
Promoters anticipate between 5,000 and 10,000 people will stream to the  coastline to witness the sunset event.
