Thousands of terrified Rwandans are scrambling out  of Kigali before an expected rebel takeover which they fear will usher in  reprisals for the wholesale massacre of Tutsis, relief officials said Tuesday.
A special UN envoy was meanwhile expected to fly into Kigali from the  Ugandan capital Kampala later Tuesday, after a dispute with the mainly Tutsi  rebels about the planned deployment of 5,500 peacekeepers to staunch  bloodletting in which up to half a million people have been butchered.
The envoy, Iqbal Riza of Pakistan, postponed his trip to Kigali on Monday  because he said neither rebels nor government forces could guarantee his  security.
The army has since promised not to shoot down Riza's plane, and rebels who  captured Kigali airport Sunday have also pledged to hold their fire, UN  spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
The United Nations has asked both sides to extend a shaky two-day truce  that began Monday when Riza arrived in northern Rwanda until Wednesday at 6:00  p.m. (1600 GMT). They were to give their answers later Tuesday, Kabia said.
Riza held "inconclusive" discussions about the return of UN troops to  Rwanda with leaders of the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) in their  northern stronghold of Mulindi on Monday, Kabia said.
"There was a disagreement over the size of the force," Kabia said.
The rebels want the United Nations to limit the number of troops in Rwanda  to 2,500 because they fear that 5,500 men could intervene in fighting between  the RPF and the army, he said.
But the UN humanitarian mission excludes such intervention.
Diplomats here say the United Nations may be unable to raise enough troops  after its debacle in Somalia, and Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali  complained Monday that member-states were reluctant to contribute soldiers.
The United Nations withdrew almost all its troops from Rwanda last month  after 10 Belgians were murdered.
The new force, which UN military officials hope will be in place within a  month, is to escort relief convoys to hungry civilians and stem the massacres  of civilians by bloodthirsty Hutu militias.
As many as 500,000 people, mostly minority Tutsis and Hutu opposition  supporters, have been hacked or clubbed to death by extremist Hutu militias  formed by president Juvenal Habyarimana in the year before his death in a  mysterious April 6 plane crash, relief officials said.
After Habyarimana was killed, the militias launched a killing spree  throughout Rwanda.
Officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said thousands of people,  mainly Hutus, were streaming out of Kigali in a desperate flight to safety  before the rebels seize control of the capital.
"They are certain that the RPF will take the city and they fear that there  will be retribution (for the killings)," one official told AFP by telephone  from Kigali.
The rebels have denied accusations by the UN High Commissioner for  Refugees that they also massacred civilians. They say their policy is to win  the hearts and minds of Hutus by guaranteeing their safety.
UN military officials said they expect the rebels to drive government  forces out of the capital "within a week" after capturing the airport and a  big army barracks Sunday in their biggest military victory in six weeks of  fighting.
Meanwhile Kabia reported that the truce was "more or less holding" in  Kigali despite "sporadic clashes around the city and occasional shelling."
"The fighting has diminished significantly," he told AFP by telephone from  Kigali.
A shell slammed into the perimeter of the UN compound near a fence on  Monday evening without causing casualties or damage, Kabia said.
But heavy fighting between rebels and government soldiers was reported in  the northwestern town of Ruhengeri and the southern town of Bugesera, he said.
Rebel guerrillas are trudging through southern marshes in a steady advance  on the town of Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25 miles) southwest of Kigali, where  the self-proclaimed interim government fled as carnage engulfed the capital  last month, UN military sources said.
About half a million Rwandans have sought sanctuary in neighbouring  countries, with about 320,000 refugees in Tanzania alone.
