Australia's powerful centre pairing of  Tim Horan and Jason Little is threatened by injury sustained in last  Saturday's Super Ten final victory over Natal in South Africa.
Horan torn his cruciate and both medial ligaments in his left knee, as  well as damaging cartilages and dislocating his knee cap.
He will be out of action for at least six to eight months and is in doubt  for next year's World Cup.
Horan, automatically ruled out of Australia's internationals against  Ireland, Italy, Western Samoa and New Zealand, requires surgery in three weeks  to fully re-construct the knee.
Little, also injured playing for Queensland in Durban, had surgery on his  left knee and is expected to be out for up to three months. He has a torn  cartilage but only partial tears of the cruciate and posterior ligaments.
He is unlikely to be fit to play in the August 17 Bledisloe Cup  international against New Zealand in Sydney.
"It's not the worst knee injury you can get, by definition, but Tim's  looking at a big reconstruction and an enormous amount of rehabilitation, both  physically and psychologically," Queensland team doctor Greg Smith said.
"Providing the reconstruction goes well, there are no complications and he  rehabilitates well, the six to eight months could be achievable."
Horan's father, Mike, said his son was confident of returning by the  start of next season.
"He's determined to have the operation, get the leg rehabilitated and get  back on track," he said.
Meanwhile, New South Wales have overlooked Wallaby forwards, Tim Gavin,  Ewen McKenzie and Willie Ofahengaue for Sunday's game against Ireland,  jeopardising their test claims.
The NSW selectors remain loyal to the side which beat Auckland in the  state side's last Super Ten game two weeks ago.
Their decision means that Gavin, McKenzie and Ofahengaue will not  represent NSW this season before the Australian team is selected for the first  Test against Ireland on June 5.
Prop McKenzie and No.8 Gavin, both of whom played in Australia's last Test  against France, missed the Super Ten campaign because of club commitments in  France and Italy respectively.
