Vietnam is seeking early entry into the once  staunchly anti-communist ASEAN and is prepared for full diplomatic ties with  the United States, Vietnamese Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet said Wednesday.
"Peaceful conditions in the region provide favourable conditions for  Vietnam," Kiet said, adding that Hanoi, until recently Southeast Asia's  political outcast, was determined not to lose out in economic development.
Kiet was speaking at a business opportunities conference organised by the  New York-based Asia Society and attended by some 800 political and business  leaders mostly from the Asia-Pacific.
He did not say when Hanoi, which now enjoys observer status at meetings of  the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) meetings, will be given  full membership.
But regional diplomats have said that this could happen over the next few  years as Vietnam quickens economic development, allowing it to join in and  benefit from cooperation already linking ASEAN's six members.
Kiet reiterated Hanoi's willingess "to turn the pages of the past" and  establish "full relations with the US for the sake of peace, stability and  cooperation."
US President Bill Clinton lifted a 19-year US economic embargo on Vietnam  in February but the two countries which are to exchange liaison officers have  not announced plans for fully normalising ties.
"Many American companies which were tied up by the embargo are now coming  to Vietnam to find opportunities for business and investment," Kiet said.
Kiet said that Hanoi was working to create more favourable conditions for  foreign investors by putting new legal and administrative systems in place and  improving working and living facilities.
"We are now preparing to join GATT and other Pacific institutions and  making preparations to become a full member of ASEAN at an early date," he  said.
The ASEAN was formed in 1967 as a bulwark against the spread of communism  in Southeast Asia and includes Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines,  Singapore and Thailand.
The ASEAN successfully isolated Vietnam after Hanoi's December 1978  invasion of neighbouring Cambodia but began rebuilding ties in the late 1980s  after Vietnamese troops started pulling out.
Last year, Vietnam joined the ASEAN Regional Forum for discussing security  issues along with the United States, Japan, Russia and other countries in the  Asia-Pacific.
