Army-backed interim president Emile  Jonassaint barred former prime minister Robert Malval and members of his  government Tuesday from leaving Haiti.
The United States meanwhile was pursuing a diplomatic initiative to try to  build support for tougher enforcement of the UN economic sanctions slapped on  Haiti to push the military to restore democracy.
The US initiative is also aimed at finding third-country sites for Haitian  refugee camps and US asylum application screening.
Haiti's state-run television announced the order barring the exit of any  former officials who had managed government finances under Malval or ousted  President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
Jonassaint, who is not recognized internationally, was inaugurated earlier  this month with the support of the military, which ousted Aristide in a  September 1991 coup.
Observers here warned that the order was likely to escalate tensions  between Jonassaint's officials and Malval's government which continues despite  the switch to manage some government business in anticipation of the  appointment of a new prime minister by Aristide.
The Governors Island Agreement signed by Aristide and the military in July  1993 calls for tMalval was initially named but stepped down in December citing the lack of  progress.
The televised statement said the measure was made out of "legitimate  concerns" for the public interest and that officials at border posts had been  notified to carry out the order.
US President Bill Clinton's special envoy for Haiti, William Gray, began a  regional swing late Monday.
After visiting the Turks and Caicos, as well as Barbados, Gray is to  arrive in Jamaica late Tuesday before returning to Washington Wednesday, State  Department spokesman Michael McCurry said in Washington.
And Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott was due to arrive in Caracas  Thursday to drum up support for tighter enforcement of the sanctions, en route  from Brazil.
The United States said Tuesday it was ready to supply the Dominican  Republic, which shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti, with helicopters,  night vision equipment and patrol ships to help it clamp down on widespread  smuggling in violation of the sanctions.
