The Cannes film festival was preparing for  its grand finale Monday evening, with the announcement of this year's coveted  Golden Palm, one of the world's top cinema honours.
After 12 days of hectic filmgoing, the 10-member jury went into secret  conclave at an unspecified location to choose the film which will take over  the laurels from last year's joint Chinese and Australasian winners.
The closing ceremony of the 47th Cannes International Film Festival, to be  hosted by veteran French actress Jeanne Moreau, is scheduled to start shortly  after 7:00 p.m. at the Festival Palace here.
During the festival the jury members -- presided by Clint Eastwood -- have  been strictly banned from discussing the films with the media.
Nevertheless as ever critics have already selected the front runners, and  those who are unlikely to be among those appearing from envelopes Monday  evening.
All indications are that the top prize will be bestowed on one of three or  four films: the two clear frontrunners are Polish director Krzysztof  Kieslowski's "Three Colours Red" and Chinese Zhang Yimou's "To Live."
Also in the leading field are Italian Nanni Moretti's "Dear Diary" and  "Exotica" by Armenian-born Canadian filmmaker Atom Egoyan.
But observers here stress that no single film here has been outstanding,  and that a surprise winner cannot be ruled out.
Other major prizes to be announced Monday evening are for best actor and  best actress, and are equally difficult to predict.
For best actor, widely-tipped is Britain's Albert Finney, for his moving  portrayal of a failed classics master in Mike Figgis' "The Browning Version,"  as has Jean-Louis Trintignant as the judge in "Red."
For best actress two strong contenders are Inna Churikova in "Riaba My  Chicken" and Kristin Scott-Thomas in the Romanian entry of the competition "An  Unforgettable Summer."
Jennifer Jason-Leigh, who starred in both "The Hudsucker Proxy" by Joel  and Ethan Coen and "Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle" by Alan Rudolph, has  also been mentioned.
In a batch of minor prizes announced late Sunday, "Exotica" was awarded the  International Critics' Prize for a film in the main competition at Cannes.
"To Live" also already received an early award here: the Ecumenical jury  awarded its annual prize jointly to Zhang's movie and Russian Nikita  Mikhalkov's "Burnt by the Sun."
The closing film of the festival, to be screened Monday before the closing  ceremony, is "Serial Mom" by US director John Waters, starring Kathleen Turner  in a kitsch comedy about a whiter-than-white suburban mother with a penchant  for murder.
