Syria's official press rejected a phased Israeli  withdrawal from the Golan Heights as US Secretary of State Warren Christopher  prepared to hold more talks Wednesday with Syrian President Hafez al-Assad.
In Washington US National Security Advisor Anthony Lake said the United  States was determined to strengthen Israel's security in a bid to help promote  a withdrawal from the plateau and a peace accord between Israel and Syria.
"We will act decisively to bolster Israel's early warning capability and  ability to handle longer-range threats to compensate for strategic advantages  it may choose to give up for peace," Lake said.
He said Washington was ready to participate in security arrangements that  Syria and Israel negotiate, stressing that the United States "does not  underestimate the risks and costs involved in achieving Israeli-Syrian peace."
Christopher, who met Assad here on Sunday at the start of his mission, was  returning from Israel where he had talks with Prime Minister Yithzak Rabin and  Foreign Minister Shimon Peres.
The Israelis are offering a phased withdrawal from the Golan linked to  security arrangements in return for total peace.
But the official Syrian daily Ath-Thawra in an editorial entitled "peace  cannot be achieved in stages" said: "Syria firmly and categorically rejects  partial solutions as well as a phased withdrawal from the Golan."
"We will not accept any Israeli presence on a single inch of the Golan,"  the newspaper said.
The government daily Tishrin called on the United States to play a full  partner role in the Middle East peace process and hoped that Christopher would  be successful in trying to "salvage the peace process."
Tishrin struck a note of optimism earlier this week by calling for a rapid  Israeli withdrawal from the Golan, urging a "reasonable and acceptable"  pullout timetable.
Christopher said after meeting Rabin that he would try "to find a common  basis between the parties" during his new talks with Syrian officials.
The Israeli premier commented: "If the secretary of state has decided to  return this week to Syria to pursue the negotiations there there is perhaps a  glimmer of hope."
"We have to extract everything we can from this opportunity. I believe  Christopher will find a joint basis for dialogue," he added.
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres spoke of "room for manoeuvre" with Syria.
The Golan, which Israel conquered in the 1967 Middle East war, has been the  main stumbling block in Syrian-Israeli negotiations since the launch of the  Madrid peace conference in October 1991.
Israel demands a prior Syrian commitment for total peace before  negotiating the size of any withdrawal from the Golan Heights. Syria demands  that Israel first commit itself to quit all the strategic plateau before  talking about the type of peace.
The United States is determined to bridge the gap between the arch rivals  now that it has secured a peace accord between Israel and the PLO for  launching autonomy in Gaza and the West Bank town of Jericho.
