Israeli warplanes blasted strongholds of  the pro-Iranian Hezbollah movement in south Lebanon in a series of raids on  Tuesday, police said.
The attacks came a day after a Moslem fundamentalist leader threatened  revenge over Israel's abduction Saturday of Mustafa Dirani, a leader of the  Resistance of the Faithful, a group close to Hezbollah and Iran.
Two fighter bombers fired 28 air-to-ground missiles into the Iqlim  al-Tuffah hills southeast of the port of Sidon, where Hezbollah guerrillas  have positions dug into the rock.
Two other aircraft serving as cover for the bombers carried out high  altitude flights over the Iqlim al-Tuffah and fired decoys as Lebanese army  troops opened up with anti-aircraft fire.
There were no immediate reports of casualties in the 30-minute operation,  during which the planes made seven bombing runs, police said.
Israel's proxy South Lebanon Army (SLA) militia fired heavy artillery at  roads in the Iqlim al-Tuffah to prevent the guerrillas from dispatching  reinforcements.
Huge columns of black smoke and clouds of dust covered the rugged terrain.
Israeli helicopters had swept through valleys used by Hezbollah guerrillas  during the night, firing machine guns and dozens of flares.
Israeli commandos snatched Dirani from his home in the Syrian-controlled  Bekaa Valley of eastern Lebanon in an operation aimed at obtaining information  about missing airman Ron Arad, whose plane was shot down over south Lebanon in  1986.
Dirani was a former security chief of the pro-Syrian Amal militia until  1988 when he quit Amal and joined ranks with Hezbollah before setting up his  own faction.
Zakariya Hamzeh, another leader of the Resistance of the Faithful, said on  Monday that the group "will not allow Israel to laugh for long".
Hezbollah, which spearheads anti-Israeli attacks in south Lebanon, also  vowed to step up its operations against Israel.
Lebanese Foreign Minister Fares Bweiz condemned Dirani's abduction as a  blow to the Middle East peace process and the press reported that Lebanon was  considering lodging a protest with the United Nations.
Israeli defence ministry spokesman Oded Ben Ami told AFP on Monday that  the commandos who abducted Dirani also returned to Israel with "important  documents."
Israeli newspapers said the raid on Dirani's home uncovered a list of names  and addresses, as well as a video tape proving that Arad had been handed over  by Dirani to other pro-Iranian elements in Lebanon.
But Hamzeh said that Dirani "has had no further involvement" in Arad since  he left Amal in 1988.
