North Korea said Saturday that "unreasonable acts"  by the United States and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) had  forced it to change fuel rods at a nuclear reactor without international  supervision.
North Korea's replacement of the rods at an experimental nuclear plant in  the absence of IAEA inspectors is "entirely an inevitable result of the  unreasonable acts of the United States and the IAEA secretariat," North  Korea's official party newspaper said.
"The United States and the secretariat of the agency have no justification  to decry our replacement of fuel rods," Rodong Sinmun said, according to a  Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) dispatch monitored here.
The IAEA has strongly criticized North Korea for going ahead with the  replacement of spent fuel rods, which began last week without IAEA inspectors  being present at the Yongbyon nuclear plant north of Pyongyang.
Inspectors arrived in Pyongyang Tuesday after the lengthy replacement of  the estimated 8,000 rods had begun.
The IAEA Friday called it a "serious violation" of its inspection terms  and said it would report North Korea to the UN Security Council, but added  that the replacement process was not advanced enough to prevent full  inspection.
"The secretariat of the agency, before slandering us, must reflect on its  acts in avoiding its obligation to guarantee the normal nuclear activities of  a member nation," Rodong Sinmun said.
The paper said the IAEA had "avoided presence in the replacement of fuel  rods", despite North Korea's request that it send inspectors for a quick  removal of the fuel rod seals.
The IAEA had refused to to send inspectors to observe the refuelling after  North Korea said it would not allow immediate sampling to determine whether  plutonium had been diverted to the country's weapons programme.
Rodong Sinmum accused the IAEA of then "raising quite a row" and informing  the agency's member nations and the UN Security Council that "we unsealed the  facilities and violated the nuclear non-proliferation treaty (NPT)."
"This is obviously a mean, conscienceless act unbecoming to an  international organization," Rodong Sinmun said.
The official Workers' Party of Korea paper added: "The US act is none the  better."
"If the United States had responded to the talks with the DPRK (North  Korea) and brought a package deal to a success as demanded by the DPRK, such  complicated problems would have not been raised."
"But the United States avoided the third round of the DPRK-US talks,  ignoring our proposals and persisting in unreasonable preconditions," the  party organ said.
The package deal agreed upon between the United States and North Korea  involved full nuclear transparency in exchange for talks leading to full US  recognition of Pyonyang.
North Korea decided in March last year to withdraw from the NPT, but after  a first round of high-level talks with the United States in June, it said it   would freeze the decision until further notice.
A second round of bilateral talks were held in July and a third round have  yet to take place.
The United States and other Western countries, which suspect North Korea  of developing nuclear weapons, have demanded unconditional IAEA inspections of  all nuclear facilities in the Stalinist country.
Rodong Sinmun added that the IAEA would not be allowed to take samples  from the rods until North Korea's "special status" under the NPT came to an  end.
But it reiterated an earlier reassurance that no plutonium would be  diverted from the rods as the process was being monitored by special IAEA  camera at the site.
"Our replacement of fuel rods is now going on under the strict observation  of the inspection cameras installed by the agency and as soon as fuel rods are  taken out, they are kept under the containment and surveillance devices of the  agency," it said.
"We are replacing fuel rods in such a manner as to fully preserve the  possibilities of measuring all the replaced fuel rods when the nuclear issue  is resolved in a package deal and the partiality of the agency removed."
