The emergence of a democratic South Africa has got  businessmen in neighbouring countries worried about what impact it might have  on trade in the region.
Some see post-apartheid South Africa as a threat, fearing that foreign  investors might divert their attention to the new democratic country because  of its vast economic potential and well-developed infrastucture.
There are also fears that South Africa might dominate the region, flooding  it with its exports.
But others view it as a magnet to attract investment and stimulate trade  within southern Africa.
Like many Zimbabweans, visiting British investment expert Sir Terence  Streeton admitted that the world is looking at South Africa's potential, but  witha certain amount of circumspection.
"Foreign investors are at the moment reluctant to commit themselves to  South Africa until they are satisfied with the political developments there,"  he said.
Fear of South African domination stems from the scale of its economy,  which is three times the size of the 10 SADC (Southern African Development  Community) countries put together.
The SADC nations are Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique,  Namibia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Between 40 and 60 percent of the total SADC trade has been with South  Africa, which enjoys an annual trade surplus of more than one billion (US)  dollars with the region.
In 1991, South Africa exported 3.76 billion dollars worth of goods to SADC  countries against imports of 668 million US dollars, according to the  Harare-based Southern Africa Foundation for Economic Research (SAFER), an  independent economic research body.
However, some analysts are optimistic that the positive political changes  in South Africa should provide a fertile ground for improved regional trade  and investment.
In any case, South Africa will within the first years, concentrate on  domestic expectations of correcting the apartheid legacies in such areas as  education, health, housing and unemployment which discriminated against  blacks, and has earmarked some 11 billion dollars of investment for the task.
"My personal view is that South Africa won't be much of a power to shake  the region as it will have its own domestic issues to address - it will be  more inward looking instead of outward," said Joshua Mushauri, the executive  director of SAFER.
However, Mushauri said, the entry of South Africa into the fold will  undermine a lot of the region's industry, as the newcomer's highly  sophisticated technology and production efficiency will result in inexpensive  goods of high quality.
Zambian Barclays Bank financial analyst, Dolika Banda, said there was now  potential for more serious capital investment from South Africa, adding that   Zambian companies were more ready for joint ventures with South Africans.
"But at the same time, one can foresee a massive braindrain from this  country. Most Zambian professionals think a new peaceful South Africa under  black rule will be a better place for greener pastures," Banda said.
Mushauri said the independence of South Africa will exacerbate the drain  of both skilled and unskilled manpower from the region.
In varying degrees, southern African countries depend on South Africa for  employment of their citizens.
Despite its former government's destabilisation acts against neighbouring  countries, causing estimated 60 million dollars of damage, the regional  countries have to accept South Africa like the biblical prodigal son.
