US troops were exposed to Iraqi chemical and  possibly biological agents during the Gulf war, afflicting tens of thousands  of veterans with a mysterious ailment, a congressional study released Thursday  concluded.
Senior Pentagon officials said, however, there was no evidence that US  troops were exposed to Iraqi chemical attacks and discounted the possibility  of exposure from fallout from allied bombings of Iraqi chemical or biological  weapon sites.
Senator Donald Riegle, who released the study, sharply criticised the  Pentagon for foot-dragging and suggested it was withholding information on  exposure of US forces to biological material.
"The contents of this report supports the conclusion that US forces were  exposed to some level of chemical and possibly biological warfare agents  during their service in the Gulf war," Riegle, a Democrat from Michigan, at a  hearing of the Senate banking committee, which he chairs.
Riegle's report said tens of thousands of veterans, many of whom are  reluctant to come forward for fear of losing their jobs, were suffering from a  variety of debilitating ailments known collectively as Gulf War Syndrome.
They include muscle and joint pain, memory loss, intestinal and heart  problems, fatigue, nasal congestion, diahorrea and rashes.
Riegle's investigation included eyewitness accounts of 17 incidents,  mostly in rear areas, in which soldiers developed the symptoms following  apparent missile or rocket attacks or aerial exlosions that set off alarms  warning of chemical-biological weapons.
In many of the incidents, soldiers reported experiencing a burning  sensation in the eyes and on the skin, bitter ammonia-like odors, and of  suffering headaches, nausea and coughing blood afterwards.
In two incidents, witnesses said the presence of chemicals was confirmed  by tests taken with M-256 kits, a more sensitive gauge than the detectors  which tripped the initial alarms.
The estimated 14,000 detectors used during the war to warn of chemical or  biological weapons are not sufficiently sensitive to detect low levels of  chemical agents, according to the report.
Moreover, it said the Pentagon has not fielded a system to detect  biological agents.
Edwin Dorn, Undersecretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, said  that the Pentagon knew of only 2,000 cases of Gulf War Syndrome, rather than  the tens of thousands claimed by Riegle.
"We have concluded that Iraq did not use chemical or biological weapons  during the war," Dorn said.
He said only one soldier was treated for chemical burns during the war,  and subsequent tests determined that the initial finding was wrong.
Morevoer, there were no confirmed detections of chemical or biological  weapons during the conflict and no such weapons were found in the Kuwait  Theater of Operations, Dorn said.
Although detector alarms went off as many as three times a day per  detector, Pentagon officials say they were prone to give false readings and  additional tests were required to verify the presence of chemical agents.
Chemical exposure resulting from fallout from allied bombings of suspected  chemical weapons sites in Iraq "was clearly a possibility," he said.
But John Kriese, a senior Defense Intelligence Agency official, testified  the military had found no evidence that US forces were contaminated by  wind-borne fallout.
Neither was there evidence of extensive casualties near the bombed sites,  which would likely occur if chemical agents had been released by the bombings,  Kriese said.
"There are a lot of theories about causes," said Dorn. "We have heard from  people who are convinced that we will find the answer if we focus solely on  parasitic diseases, or Kuwaiti oil fire smoke, or industrial pollutants, or  the effects of inoculations, or stress, or multiple chemical sensitivity."
The Riegle report urged the government to declassify information related  to Iraqi chemical and biological weapons, as well as an epidemiological study  involving all Gulf War veterans.
