Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres announced here  Thursday that talks would soon be held on transferring power in five key areas  to Palestinian authorities throughout the West Bank.
Speaking after a meeting with President Francois Mitterrand, Peres said he  believed that, in the near future, Israeli and Palestinian leaders would  discuss "the transfer of power in certain sectors into the hands of  Palestinian authorities on the West Bank."
Peres, who arrived in the French capital Thursday for a 24-hour visit  after talks in Oslo with Palestine Liberation Organisation leader Yasser  Arafat, cited health, education, tourism, and fiscal and social matters as the  sectors in question.
The Israeli army, which finished its withdrawal overnight Tuesday from the  Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho, still occupies some West Bank  regions.
The first part of bilateral negotiations had been concluded successfully,  Peres said.
The Israelis "have left Gaza and Jericho and this is the first time that  the Palestinian people have made real, territorial gains," he added.
Questioned on Arafat's recent call for a Moslem holy war -- or jihad -- to  liberate Jerusalem, Peres said that he hoped the comment did not presage a  return to PLO militancy.
"The past cannot be changed but I hope that it will not be repeated in the  future," Peres said.
"Arafat made a mistake that he has tried to correct, but despite this the  negotations must continue."
On Tuesday Israeli radio broadcast what it said was a speech given by  Arafat May 10 in a Johannesburg mosque in which the Palestinian leader called  on Moslems to "take part in a jihad (holy war) to liberate Jerusalem."
Arafat said Wednesday in Oslo that his comments had been misinterpreted,  insisting that he had used the word "jihad" in a purely religious sense.
Peres and Arafat announced earlier Thursday after meeting in Oslo that  they had agreed on an agenda for the next round of talks on the West Bank  territories.
Those talks would probably take place in Cairo, Peres said, adding that  further negotiations about the extension of Palestinian autonomy would be held  in Washington at a date to be arranged.
