Colombians go to the polls Sunday to pick a new  president, and the neck-and-neck, Liberal-Conservative race may send voting  into a second round for the first time in the country's history.
Some 17 million voters are registered to choose a successor to Liberal  President Cesar Gaviria.
The Liberals' hopeful, 43-year-old Ernesto Samper, has been polling just  slightly ahead of his top competitor, 39-year-old Conservative Andres  Pastrana. But a survey this week for the first time gave Pastrana the edge.
And due to electoral rule changes, if no candidate nets an absolute  majority of the vote Sunday, the race will move into a runoff that would be  held June 19.
Also for the first time, voters here will elect a vice-president, running  on the ticket with their presidential candidate.
Previously, Congress could elect a president for a two-year term in the  event the presidency became vacant. But the elected vice-president now will be  first in line in the power succession in the event of such a crisis.
Samper, Gaviria's former development minister, and Pastrana, the son of a  former president, each have been polling at about 45 percent.
Their Liberal and Conservative Parties have dominated this geographically  diverse country of tropical lowlands, Andean highlands and valleys, and  Caribbean and Pacific coasts since the 19th century.
Gaviria, 47, whose four-year term ends in August, has an unusually high  popularity rating of about 60 percent.
And unlike other elections in which bringing about change has been voters'  top interest, Gaviria's would-be successors have been pledging to follow in  his policy footsteps.
His popularity stems largely from the belief that negotiations between his  government and leftist rebels sharply reduced the number of bloody  car-bombings in the capital, and from a two-pronged anti-drugs strategy that  calls for leniency for criminals who surrender and tough pursuit of those who  do not.
The drugs policy is widely credited with breaking the once-powerful  Medellin cocaine cartel. The Cali cartel has replaced as the country's leading  narcotics processor and exporter.
Polls put former M-19 guerrilla leader and Gaviria's former health  minister, Antonio Navarro, in third place with about 5 percent of the vote.
If there is a stunning surprise, it will come from retired general Miguel  Maza, the former head of the secret police and the sworn enemy of Pablo  Escobar, the head of the Medellin cocaine cartel shot dead by police six  months ago.
He has been polling, however, at just short of three percent with the  remaining few percentage points divided among fully 15 other candidates.
Escobar's dramatic surrender in June 1991 and the subsequent dismantling  of the Medellin cartel was the high-water mark of Gaviria's administration and  a vindication of his decision not to extradite drug kingpins to the United  States if they agree to surrender.
The policy worked, and drug-related violence dropped despite Escobar's  escape in July 1992. Colombian police pursued him for 18 months before he was  killed. Gaviria had less success battling the Cali cartel.
Another defeat for Gaviria has been his relative lack of success in making  peace with the country's two largest rebel movements: the ultranationalist  National Liberation Army (ELN), which wants foreign interests out of  Colombia's oil industry and often targets pipelines and drilling sites, and  the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC).
Gaviria began talks almost as soon as he took power in 1990 with periodic  meetings around Colombia and in Venezuela and Mexico.
But to no avail, as about 10,000 guerrillas are believed to be active in  Colombia. The president himself has estimated that 512 of Colombia's 1,038  cities have some rebel presence.
In addition to drug and rebel violence, right-wing groups and common crime  bring Colombia's murder rate to 25,000 in 1993 in a country of 33.5 million.
Colombia's economic growth has been solid by Latin American standards with  Gaviria's policies of reducing protectionism, though his administration has  been accused of neglecting social ills, especially health care woes and  education.
