Confrontation between Nigeria's military junta and  pro-democracy movement appeared inevitable with the approach of a deadline at  midnight Tuesday from the opposition for the regime to stand down.
Opposition movements grouped in a new nationwide organisation, the  National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), have called on General Sani Abacha to  hand over power to Moshood Abiola, the presumed winner of elections annulled  last year.
Residents in several parts of the economic capital Lagos began stocking up  on food supplies and other provisions in anticipation of trouble in the  streets of the city, an AFP correspondent reported.
The government has dismissed the ultimatum, which does not spell out what  the opposition plans to do if the military does not comply, as a "joke" and  warned that all political activity has been banned since Abacha seized power  in November last year.
The Campaign for Democracy (CD), a Lagos-based grouping of some 40 human  rights and pro-democracy organisations affiliated to NADECO, said Tuesday in a  statement that there was "no going back on the May 31 ultimatum."
"Our people has decided to take their destiny into their hands," the  statement said, "for there comes a time in the life of a nation when it is  faced with two basic options: to fight on or surrender."
"We of the Campaign for Democracy have chosen to fight on until victory is  attained," it added. "The time for war has come and war we must for the seeds  of democracy to be planted and nurtured."
The bellicose language apart, NADECO has pledged to wage a non-violent  campaign to oust the military. The annulment of the June 12 election by then  military ruler General Ibrahim Babangida led to bloodshed during protests in  Lagos last year.
Millionaire businessman Abiola, who was said on unofficial results to have  won the presidential poll, declared free and fair by international observers,  said on Monday that he was "fully ready to claim the mandate."
"I am ready for the worst," he told the magazine News. And in a separate  interview with Concord magazine, he said: "Nobody can stop me. We are dealing  with people who are looters. They are not leaders. They are dealers and they  must go."
The military, however, has warned that it would tolerate no hindrance of  its own plans for restoring civilian rule, beginning with a constitutional  conference it plans from June 27.
It has not detailed its programme for change any more than Abiola said how  he planned to organise his "government of national unity" he has vowed to form.
NADECO and other pro-democracy movements called for a boycott of  elections of delegates to the constitutional conference and few voters turned  out in the first round on May 23.
Observers said turnout was higher in Saturday's second round.
The conference looks set to be dominated by former ministers, governors  and prominent citizens, according to a published list of those elected to  attend the gathering.
A total of 273 delegates is expected to emerge from the election. The  government will nominate another 96 other delegates, bringing the total number  to 369.
A National Constitutional Conference Commission, responsible for preparing  an agenda for the four-month debate, has submitted its report to the military  government. Its conclusions are to be presented to the provisional ruling  council for approval, presidential sources said Monday.
