The Irish Republican Army (IRA) announced Saturday  that it had executed a man near Armagh, southwest of Belfast, because he had  been spying on one of its militants.
Sources said the dead man was believed to be a British soldier.
Police said they located the body of a man in a field near Armagh but were  slowed down in collecting and identifying the corpse by fears that mines or  other booby-traps might have been planted nearby.
An IRA spokesman said in a telephone call to a Belfast news outlet that  the man was "arrested" and interrogated before being shot because "he was  observing movements of a republican."
The British army reported that one of its soldiers was missing Saturday  and sources said police assumed that this was the dead man.
Late Friday in Belfast, youths fired at police and set fire to vehicles in  a series of incidents in Protestant areas of the city, police said.
Gunshots were fired in the Ballysillan area of north Belfast and police  returned fire. They said no one was hit.
Two people were arrested and a handgun was recovered after an attempt to  hijack a bus in the Donegal Road area.
Automatic gunfire was directed at police in Sandy Row near the city centre.
In addition police said several vehicles had been hijacked and set on fire.
The violence followed the court appearance Friday of a suspected member of  the outlawed Protestant group the Ulster Freedom Fighters (UFF), one of 20  suspects arrested in a police swoop Monday.
John Adair, 30, from Shankill Road, west Belfast, was charged with  "directing activities of an organisation concerned in the commission of acts  of terrorism, namely the Ulster Freedom Fighters."
He was the first alleged UFF member to face terrorism charges in court.
The outbreak of street unrest in Protestant areas prompted concern among  Church leaders here.
Archbishop Robin Eames told BBC radio that growing numbers of Protestants  thought that violence was the only way to protect their interests since the  British government has begun making overtures to the Irish Republican Army  (IRA).
"When a community sees constant publicity givent to the advocates of  violence, when you see those who have had an ambivalent attitude towards  violence given headlines ... it is stretching the patience of a lot of  people," he said.
His comments followed a British response to demands from Sinn Fein, the  political wing of the IRA, for clarification of a December 15 Anglo-Irish  declaration aimed at bringing peace to Northern Ireland.
On Thursday London provided a detailed response to 20 questions from Sinn  Fein and promised to hold a referendum on the future of Northern Ireland if  the question of a united Ireland arose during peace talks.
Sinn Fein has yet to respond to the December 15 joint declaration, which  offered it a full part in Northern Ireland peace talks once the IRA renounced  violence for a minimum of three months.
The party welcomed the British response but said it would not reply in  detail until after the June European elections.
Friday, Ulster Unionist MP James Molyneaux called for an immediate halt to  the loyalist campaign of violence and it was reported that the Protestant  paramilitaries were seriously considering his call.
He said it would be a small step for loyalist paramilitaries to enter the  democratic process saying: "There is no bar now to any paramilitary body  terminating violence after a period of three months entering into exploratory  discussion."
Since the beginning of the year, 31 people have died in sectarian killings  in Northern Ireland -- 14 claimed by the IRA, 17 by Protestant militia.
