France is determined to prevent British airlines  from carrying out plans to break the French stranglehold on flights into  Paris' Orly airport next week, transport ministry sources said Friday.
British Airways, Air UK and TAT airlines say they will ignore France's  refusal to allow them to use the busy international airport south of Paris and  will launch services between London and Orly on Monday, as permitted by a  European Commission ruling.
But the French sources underlined that without an accepted flight plan, no  pilot can take off without violating international regulations and endangering  his passengers' lives.
When asked about the matter, a spokesman for the transport ministry, which  is in charge of the General Agency for Civil Aviation (DGAC) that handles  flight plans, refused to comment, simply saying: "all possible cases have been  contemplated and studied."
The British airlines, backed by their government, are insisting they are  entitled to start flights to Orly next week in line with a European Union  ruling ordering France to open three domestic routes to competition:  Orly-London, Orly-Toulouse and Orly-Marseille.
British Airways (BA) has said: "We have the rights and the slots, and we  will be starting our first London-to-Orly flights on Monday." The British  government has expressed its "full support" for the airline.
In London, a Civil Aviation Authority spokesman noted that the easiest way  in practice for the French to prevent BA and other airlines from serving Orly  was to reject the flight plan, which every pilot has to submit an hour before  takeoff.
But at the same time, a BA spokesman continued to maintain that "there  will be no problem" and no reason for flight plans to be filed Monday to be  turned down. The first scheduled flight to Orly is due to leave Heathrow  airport at 6:50 a.m. (0550 GMT) Monday and arrive in Paris an hour later.
Sources at the French transport ministry said Friday that the French  government did not in any way question "the principle of opening the  Orly-London route to British companies as soon as possible."
But they said it was normal for the government to reject a "fait accompli"  that BA and some other British companies were trying to put over.
Transport Minister Bernard Bosson has said France accepts the idea in  principle but needs extra time to deal with such difficulties as overcrowding  at Orly, environmental problems and reciprocal access to London airports.
Foreign competition through Orly is also seen as a threat to the  loss-making national carrier Air France and its domestic subsidiary Air Inter.  Unions at Air Inter have called a strike for Tuesday in protest over the  opning of the routes.
The routes through Orly are coveted by foreign companies because all  domestic French flights leave from the airport.
Orly has 204,000 incoming and outgoing flights per year compared to  304,000 at the bigger Charles de Gaulle international airport north of the  capital.
Last year, 9.7 million passengers used the Orly-Sud international part of  the terminal while 15.7 million passed through Orly-Ouest, reserved for the  domestic carrier Air-Inter.
French analysts believe British airlines are keen to capture the estimated  half a million French passengers who use Air Inter each year to fly to Paris  to catch a foreign connection.
Orly also is more easily accessible by car from Paris, though rail  connections are inferior and the terminal closes part of the night, unlike the  Charles de Gaulles airport.
The ministry source said the French government was eager above all to  negotiate a reciprocity agreement with Britain before opening Orly to British  aircraft, as the European Commission has ordered.
Air France and Air Outremer have filed applications to use Heathrow  airport in London which were rejected on grounds that the airport is already  too congested.
Until now, all flights to London from Paris have left from Roissy-Charles  de Gaulle airport, flying to four London airports: Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted  and London City Airport.
