A somber President Bill Clinton laid a  wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier here Monday as part of Memorial Day  ceremonies preceding a trip to Europe to mark the 50th anniversary of D-Day.
In brief remarks, the president noted the sacrifices made by the famous  fighters of America's wars and the many remembered only by their families and  friends but "whose deeds were the backbone of our nation."
The president focused on World War II, saying that Hitler's Germany  believed democracies were too undisciplined to be viable.
But, the president added, "it was the energies of free people who turned  the tide."
"Today, too many of our youngest Americans know too little about what the  heroes of that war did," he added. "That is why the commemorative ceremonies  this year are so important to all of us."
"We owe them a lasting debt of gratitude," said the president, including  medical care for persisting injuries and continued efforts to determine the  fate of US troops still missing from the Vietnam War.
Early Monday, the White House hosted 200 veterans, including 73 who fought  in World War II, for a breakfast with the president, who leaves for Europe  Wednesday for ceremonies to mark the 50th anniversary of the Allied invasion  of France.
The president also introduced 10 stamps representing key battles in World  War II, including one commemorating the D-Day landings at the beaches of  Normandy on June 6, 1944. Others mark the liberations of Rome on June 4, 1944  and Paris on August 25, 1944.
In Washington, thousands of motorcyclists roared past the White House to  protest Clinton's lifting of the US embargo on trade with Vietnam. It was the  seventh annual "Rolling Thunder" ride to call attention to the issue of the  remaining unaccounted for prisoners of war (POWs) and servicemen listed as  missing in action (MIAs).
The holiday was a difficult one for the president last year. A few  veterans angered at Clinton's moves to avoid being drafted to fight in  Indochina booed him during remarks at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
In New York, hundreds of World War II veterans boarded the Queen Elizabeth  II on Sunday to celebrate the holiday and prepare for a voyage across the  Atlantic to participate in D-Day commemorations.
Although some Americans took time out to remember American soldiers who  fought for their country, the holiday is most widely marked by the first trips  to the beach of the summer and backyard barbecues.
New York's 73-year-old Memorial Day parade was cancelled.
"You can't bring a guy out of a wheelchair and the Vietnam kids don't show  up half the time," said John Morahan, an American Legion official who helped  organize the parade for decades.
