Russian writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn  went shopping on Saturday morning for the first time since returning from 20  years in exile and was astonished by the prices.
The Nobel literature laureate was astounded to discover that sausages cost  10,000 rubles a kilo on Vladivostok's central market.
"When I left the prices were quite different. It's strange for me, I'm not  used to it," he told a stallholder. Sausages cost barely one or two rubles a  kilo in 1974, the year that the dissident author was expelled for writing  about the "Gulag" prison camps and denouncing literary censorship.
Solzhenitsyn, who flew into this far eastern Russian port on Friday, was  making his first contacts with the new Russia which has emerged since the  collapse of the Soviet Union.
In the market he was surprised not only by inflation, but by displays of  western produce like chocolates which had never been available in the old  days. He also came up against beggars, a social reality which had been hidden  under the communist regime.
"I've never seen so many people. It's usually quiet here," one of the  "bomjis" (homeless) grumbled as he was almost trodden underfoot by the foreign  journalists flocking after Solzhenitsyn.
Several onlookers, particularly elderly women, greeted the 75-year-old  writer and thanked him for his struggle against communism. "You are right, you  are right," one of them called out to him. "Look over there, there is a great  man going by," one man said as he pointed out the writer to his 10-year-old  daughter.
"He's a second Dostoievsky, a true patriot, a true Russian," Vladimir  Agriev, a 58-year-old engineer, told AFP.
Solzhenitsyn, surrounded by security men and a swarm of journalists,  exchanged only a few words with the market traders, to ask them about their  prices.
He was dressed very simply, as usual, in a dark shirt with a linen jacket,  and had a hold-all slung over his shoulder. He was accompanied by his wife  Natalia and their two sons, Yermolai and Stepan.
As well as shopping, the former dissident visited a regional hospital to  enquire about its needs in equipment and medicine.
During his visit, he found himself stuck in a lift for more than 20  minutes. He took it very calmly -- lift breakdowns are extremely common here  -- and used the time to question the hospital's director about working  conditions, jotting down her replies in a little notebook. He explained that  he did not want to talk to the patients out of respect for their privacy.
The director meanwhile explained how deregulation of the Russian economy  had forced the hospital to import honey from neighbouring China even though  Vladivostok produced its own.
The writer refused to make any statements as he left the hospital, saying  "How can I comment? I need to make lots of visits over several months."
On Friday night, he told 4,000 people who gathered to hear him in a  central square that everywhere he went, he hoped to meet and listen to local  people, so as to test and revise his judgement on Russia today.
His wife Natalia confirmed that her husband intended to tour Russia for  several weeks after his stay in Vladivostok. He is to cross the country by  train to his new home outside Moscow.
