The Golden Palm went west Monday as the  Cannes film festival awarded its top prize to the US gangster film "Pulp  Fiction," wrenching the trophy from last year's dominance by Asia and  Australasia.
The balance was maintained, however, by two awards for Chinese director  Zhang Yimou's epic "To Live," with a joint share in the Grand Jury prize and  the award for best actor.
The awarding of the Golden Palm to Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction" was  announced at a ceremony hosted by French actress Jeanne Moreau at the climax  of the 47th Cannes International Film Festival.
Tarantino, the 31-year-old director of the cult film "Reservoir Dogs,"  expressed suprise at the decision. So did many observers, as the top prize had  been expected to go to Zhang or Poland's Krzysztof Kieslowski for "Three  Colours Red."
Accepting his award, Tarantino said: "I don't make the kind of movies  which bring people together. I make movies that break people apart."
Tarantino's two-and-a-half-hour movie, starring John Travolta, Bruce  Willis and Harvey Keitel, was screened only two days before the end of the  festival. But one sign that it was going to do well was that the initial press  screening attracted 3,500 journalists for 1,000 places.
Parodying various genres, notably "Bonnie and Clyde" and gangster movies,  the film is based on a complex structure in three parts, with apparently  unrelated characters coming together in a final tour de force climax.
The triumph for US cinema was the fourth in six years -- after Steven  Sonderbergh's "Sex, Lies and Videotape" (1989), "Wild at Heart" by David Lynch  (1990) and 1991 Joel and Ethan Coen hit "Barton Fink."
Meanwhile jury president Clint Eastwood named China's Ge You as best actor  for his role in Zhang's "To Live," while Virna Lisi was named best actress for  her part in the French movie "La Reine Margot" (Queen Margot).
Ge, speaking at a press conference, paid particular tribute to the  director, who stayed away from Cannes in protest at Beijing's refusal so far  to allow it to be screened in his native country.
"The ideal situation would have been for him to be here. When he hears the  news I'm sure he will be happy," he said. His co-star Gong Li added: "I think  this means a lot for Chinese film."
The Grand Jury prize went jointly to "To Live" and Nikita Mikhalkov's  "Burnt by the Sun."
In other awards Italian filmmaker Nanni Moretti won best director for his  semi-autobiographical "Caro Diario" (Dear Diary).
Lisi wept as she accepted her award for her role as Catherine of Medici in  "Margot," which also received the jury prize for director Patrice Chereau.
The big loser of the night was undoubtedly Poland's Kieslowski, whose  "Three Colours Red," widely tipped for the top award, failed to win any prizes.
The unpredictability of this year's contest contrasted with last year --  when Jane Campion's "The Piano" from New Zealand and Chen Kaige's "Farewell to  My Concubine" from China led almost from their first screenings.
Other awards were best screenplay to Michel Blanc for "Grosse Fatigue"  (Very Tired), France, and Best Short Film to "El Heroe" (The Hero) by Carlos  Carrera of Mexico.
On Sunday night a number of early awards were announced, topped by the   International Critics' Prize for films in official competition for "Exotica"  by Canadian Atom Egoyan.
The closing film of the festival was also screened Monday. "Serial Mom" by  US director John Waters, starring Kathleen Turner in a kitsch comedy about a  suburban mother with a penchant for murder.
