French opposition Socialist Party leader Michel  Rocard called on Friday for an end to the international arms embargo against  Bosnia, apparently averting a threat to the socialists in European elections  due on June 12.
Rocard's call was immediately welcomed by French philosopher Bernard-Henri  Levy who on Thursday threatened to field a "Sarajevo" list in the polls to  ensure that the Bosnian conflict remained on the agenda of the European Union,  his supporters said Thursday.
The "Europe begins in Sarajevo" list, to be topped by cancer specialist  Leon Schwartzenberg, would be likely to hurt Rocard's socialists most among  the contenders for the European parliament, analysts said, and damage Rocard's  chances to be candidate of the left in 1995 presidential elections in France.
Speaking on Europe-1 radio, Rocard said that lifting the embargo was the   only way of reaching a political solution on Bosnia when "the UN Security  Council remains paralysed."
He conceded such a decision would be "momentous, for as soon as one  recognises one's powerlessness to protect the Bosnians, the local war can only  intensify."
Rocard said however that he would prefer that the Unted Nations "in the  next three days" reiterate its air strike threats, but this time "to back  demands for immediate negotiations to prerve Bosnian territorial integrity."
Speaking immediately afterwards on the same radio station, Levy praised  Rocard's embargo call as "decisive" and "essential."
Levy said it was the first time an important politician had broken "the  deafening silence burying the Bosnians" and adopted a position "in conformity  with honour, courage and right" over the embargo issue.
On Thursday Levy said his Sarajevo list would only go ahead if the main  political parties refused to modify their policies on former Yugoslavia and  said a final decision would be taken on May 27, the last day for registration.
In an opinion column in the daily Le Monde Friday, French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe argued against lifting the embargo, saying the Bosnian Moslems  would be "crushed" by the Serbs.
Lifting the embargo would mean "the end of humanitarian aid which has saved  hundreds of thousands of lives, the resumption of the bombing of cities, this  time by both sides, thanks to the new weapons we are being pressed to pour  into this devastated country," Juppe wrote.
Latest opinion polls credit the right with 33 percent of the vote in the  European poll, with 18 or 19 percent for Rocard and 11 percent for maverick  left-winger Bernard Tapie. Anything less than 20 percent for Rocard would make  it difficult for him to stand in the May 1995 presidential elections.
On Friday, Rocard denied he was playing politics "on the backs of the  Bosnians" and said he had first stated his stand on the embargo last April 20.
Levy, an active supporter of the Moslems in the Bosnian conflict, has  presented a film on Bosnia entitled "Bosna!" at the Cannes film festival.
Former French humanitarian action minister Bernard Kouchner, whom is  number three on the socialist list, told Le Monde that while he welcomed  reviving the Bosnian debate, to go ahead with a political list in the  elections "would be stupid."
He said it risked garnering only up to two percent of the vote, at the  expense of the left, and "people would only notice that France is not very  interested in Sarajevo."
