US Secretary of State Warren Christopher went  straight into talks with President Hafez al-Assad here Sunday at the start of  his second peace shuttle in as many weeks between arch-foes Syria and Israel.
The secretary was to deliver Israel's response to Assad's  counter-proposals, following an initial Israeli offer of a phased withdrawal  from the strategic Golan Heights.
The Syrian president had asked for clarifications.
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has offered to return three of five  Druze villages on the heights as a first stage in a three-step withdrawal over  five to eight years from the plateau which Israel conquered in 1967.
State-run Damascus Radio said Christopher would find in Syria a readiness  to "negotiate seriously on ideas and proposals" which could lead to a  settlement, in contrast to Israel which was "squandering peace opportunities."
Syria is willing to discuss an Israeli withdrawal from the heights on  condition Israel pledges a complete pullout within an "acceptable and  reasonable" timeframe, the government daily Tishrin said.
A Tishrin commentary headlined "Will Israel take the adequate decision?"  said the ball lay in Israel's court "and those who give it support," in  reference to the United States.
In Jerusalem, a senior Israeli official said Christopher would try to  persuade Syria to set up a joint military commission with Israel to "draft  security arrangements" for the heights.
But the proposal was likely to be flatly rejected in Damascus, where an  official said only last week that Israel should complete a total pullout from  the heights before security arrangements could be discussed.
Syria has insisted it would not surrender a single inch of the plateau  which commands access to Damascus as well as northern Israel, but it has not  refused to discuss ways of finding a settlement.
Diplomats here and in Beirut said that the exchange of messages between  Syria and Israel was a step in the right direction, although both sides were  far from a breakthrough.
A Western diplomat in Damascus said the counter-proposals submitted to  Israel by Syria "included some very specific questions which opened the way  for a concrete and serious debate."
The official Syria Times newspaper, meanwhile, urged the United States to  play a full partner role in the peace process, and not just that of a postman  delivering messages.
Progress depended on "Washington playing its full partner role ... This  role should be effective and not ink on paper," the newspaper said.
Syrian demands for an Israeli withdrawal from the Golan, which the Jewish  state annexed in 1981, has been a major stumbling block in the peace process  launched back in October 1991.
Christopher himself has said he did not expect any major breakthrough on  his latest mission, following a similar shuttle in late April-early May, and  warned that a Syrian-Israeli peace deal was still a long way off.
"I do think the parties are serious and I want to play my part and take  messages back and forth," he said.
