Crimea for the first time officially  commemorated Wednesday the deportation of Tartars, Germans, Greeks, Bulgarians  and Armenians from Crimea by Soviet dictator Josef Stalin 50 years ago.
The Crimean government declared May 18 a day of national mourning,  breaking from a long policy of sweeping the deportations under the carpet and  making it difficult for Tartars to return.
Yuri Meshkov, the pro-Russian president of Crimea, a fully-fledged  republic within Ukraine, said at an official ceremony in a theatre: "These  people were made outlaws for the rest of their lives, and were subjected to  political and moral terror.
"We must not forget, we must make sure it is a lesson we learn," he said.
Ukrainian Deputy Premier Mikola Julinski expressed the condolences of  Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk and the Ukrainian parliament for the  misdeeds of the past.
But the facade of unanimity belied the deep antagonism between the two  camps since Meshkov won the Crimean presidential election in January on a  pro-Russian and anti-Ukrainian ticket.
While the blue, white and red flag of Crimea flew in the streets of  Simferopol, Tartars who are worried about the pro-Russian bias of the new  administration put out yellow and blue Ukrainian flags in Lenin square.
Some of them even carried banners calling for the establishment of a  Tartar state within Crimea.
Julinksi read out a message from Kravchuk warning of the risk of conflict  in Crimea, a mosaic of different nationalities, and calling for "the return of  peace between nationalities."
Condemning Stalin's totalitarian crime, Kravchuk's message said: "Be  careful, it must never happen again."
On Wednesday morning, the authorities put up a commemorative plaque  outside the railway station to remember the 52,000 Germans deported in 1941,  the 200,000 Tartars in May 1944, and the tens of thousands of Greeks,  Armenians and Bulgarians sent packing the following month.
Since 1987, between 200,000 and 280,000 Tartars have returned from Siberia  and central Asia, and now constitute about 10 percent of the population of the  Crimean peninsula, where Russians represent a 67 percent majority.
