Mustafa Abdi fled Somalia like thousands of other  war-weary refugees, seeking a safe haven after years of bitter and bloody  conflict.
But three months later the 20-year-old from Mogadishu was lying in the  spartan Al-Kuwait hospital in the Yemeni capital Sanaa, his right arm  amputated at the elbow and both legs paralysed by a piece of shrapnel lodged  in his spine.
He was in the southern Abyan region of Yemen, east of the port city of  Aden, when civil war broke out on May 5 between forces loyal to President Ali  Abdallah Saleh and those of his southern rival Ali Salem al-Baid.
"The missile came from the sea, 16 days ago," he said. "I just want to go  back to Somalia now."
Mustafa Abdi's cousin Faisal Omar, also 20, lay in the bed opposite, his  right leg shattered by bullets which he said were fired from a ship.
"I was with a group of six people near the Al-Koud camp when the bullets  hit us. Two were killed."
Somali refugees said some 470 people were killed in the camp on the coast  and hundreds injured when it was caught in crossfire between Baid's forces and  the northern al-Amaliqa (giants) brigade based at Zinjibar, 55 kilometres (33  miles) east of Aden.
By an even crueller twist of fate some of those evacuated from the camp  were taken to the Al-Jamahiriya hospital in Sanaa, where on Monday a Scud  missile landed just 150 metres (yards) from the building smashing its windows.
Saadia Jama, 65, was the only refugee left in the hospital out of the 25  other badly-injured refugees brought with her from Al-Koud.
The others fled in panic when the missile slammed into the Yemeni capital,  killing at least 13 and wounding about 100 others, according to official  figures. It also demolished eight houses.
Jama could not flee as her legs were broken when she came under a hail of  fire in the camp.
The other injured Somalis are now either in other hospitals or being  looked after by the Somali community in Sanaa.
The United Nations and Red Cross moved 800 refugees from the exposed camp  to new locations away from the fighting Tuesday.
Arnold Luethold, regional representative of the International Committee of  the Red Cross (ICRC), told reporters the refugees were taken to Al-Koud  village, Bajidar -- a village near Zinjibar -- and two other villages -- Jawl  and Makhzan.
UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) representative Nicholas Coussidis  said the relocation was only "a temporary solution" because there was a danger  of overcrowding in the villages.
A new site was being prepared for the refugees near Jaar, about 50  kilometres (31 miles) north of Al-Koud.
The refugees needed food urgently, Coussidis said, but "there is no  famine."
About 36 tonnes of food would be trucked down from Al-Bayda Thursday, and  the UN was also planning to help the local Yemeni population, he said.
After the Al-Koud camp came under intense bombardment many of the  estimated 5,000 refugees there fled to nearby villages.
The evacuation was delayed not only by the fighting but also by the  failure of the Aden authorities to give adequate security guarantees,  Coussidis said.
Dieter Hanusch of the World Food Programme said the war had left some  three million dollars' worth of UN food stuck in Aden.
Moreover interference by armed Somali leaders had prevented the UN from  distributing the March and April food rations to the refugees.
