Indonesian dissidents are either worried or  outright indignant over this week's announcement that state security forces  would become more involved in labour disputes.
The head of the army's powerful social and political division, General  Hartono, announced that the National Coordinating Agency for the Maintenance  of National Stability (Bakorstanas) would become involved in social conflicts  from their outset to prevent them from spinning out of control.
In mid-April, strikes in the North Sumatran city of Medan degenerated into  demonstrations against the country's ethnic Chinese, in which one person was  killed amidst widespread property damage.
On Tuesday Hartono criticised Indonesia's official trade union, the SPSI  (Indonesian Workers Union), saying it had failed in its mission to defend the  country's workers.
His remarks were not welcomed by the president of the independent  Prosperity union (officially called the SBSI), Mukhtar Pakpahan: "I think this  move will not overcome the problem. The root of the labour dispute in  Indonesia is because there is no freedom for workers to organise themselves,"  he said.
"This involvement by Bakorstanas or the army is a step backwards," he  added.
Founded in 1992, Prosperity is not recognised by the government, which  prefers to deal with the official SPSI only.
Accused by the army of being behind the rioting in Medan, Prosperity has  seen its freedom of movement further curtailed ever since. Three of its local  officials have been arrested, and another twenty activists have been detained.
"The move is also against our law. Even the ministerial decree which  allows the intervention of the military to a labour dispute has been scrapped  by the introduction of new ministerial decree number 15/1994 at the beginning  of the year," Pakpahan said.
"It will also protect the interest of the businessman and it leads to a  militarisation," he said.
The new measure was also denounced by the co-founder of another  independent union, "Solidarity" (Setiakawan) -- older than Prosperity but now  lapsed -- human rights activist Johanes Princen.
"In the first place, the army should lower the informal cost that you have  to pay to the manpower ministry, the military, the police, the mayor of the  city, the people of the industry ministry, etcetera," he said, alluding to  what he says are the numerous bribes employers have to pay the authorities  here.
"We all know that it does exist," he said. "The informal costs have to  disappear. The profit could then go in part to the labour."
Hartono defended the new involvement of Bakorstanas, calling it part of a  legitimate concern for the stability of the country.
"If they are not coordinated from the outset, social problems could  increase and get out of hand ... they could become violent and then require  even more difficult measures," he said.
Observers here said that Hartono's carefully prepared remarks, which were  read to a seminar here and then given widespread publicity in the national  media the next day, were a reflection of the military establishment's concern  with the subject.
The Medan demonstrators were demanding to be paid minimum wage, which is  around the equivalent of 1.50 dollars a day. But many employers ignore the  law, even according to the government of president Suharto.
