The European Union (EU) is trying to overcome  final hitches to ambitious trade, cooperation and partnership agreements with  Russia and Ukraine, European diplomats said at the weekend.
They were speaking ahead of a meeting of EU foreign ministers here Monday  which could endorse the accord with Russia and agree on the formal signing of  a similar deal with Ukraine which was initialled in March.
The two agreements give greater access to western European markets, open  up the prospect of free trade areas after 1997 if market reforms are  implemented, and provide for greater political dialogue.
In Moscow's case, Russia is also acknowledged to be an economy in  transition towards a free market, rather than state-controlled. This is a  significant concession translating into better trade prospects.
But hardnosed bargaining by Russia involving its nuclear fuel exports and  restrictions on foreign banks has held up the EU-Russian agreement for more  than a year.
And some EU countries are reluctant to sign the accord with Ukraine before   Kiev fulfills its agreement last January to dismantle its nuclear arsenal.
The EU's executive European Commission said that it had reached "agreement  in principle" with Moscow, including compromises on the nuclear fuel and  banking issues which must still be endorsed by several reluctant EU countries.
France in particular objects to allowing Russia's exports of nuclear fuels  such as enriched uranium to benefit from the accord, despite a clause which  would let the EU block surges of dumped Russian uranium.
"The issue is complicated because US companies have secured an extremely  good deal with Russia, so the Russian nuclear materials could be dumped on  Europe," a British official said.
He also reported general EU discontent with a Russian insistence that  foreign banks in Russia should be allowed no more than 12 percent of the  capitalisation of the Russian banking system.
However, a diplomat here quipped that this issue was unlikely to derail  the accord since "I'm not sure there is a flood of banks rushing to go (to  Russia) given the exciting Mafia situation there."
Also on Monday's agenda is a debate over whether the accord with Ukraine  should be delayed as a lever to make Kiev meet its January commitment to  dismantle its nuclear arsenal inherited from the Soviet Union.
And the EU ministers will discuss a proposal that western nations should  pay for the close-down of Ukraine's dangerous Chernobyl nuclear power station  and replace it with at least two new power stations.
Ukraine is asking for more than three billion dollars to do this -- "a very  large price," one EU diplomat remarked.
But the alternative is even more chilling -- a repeat of the world's  worst-ever nuclear disaster at the Chernobyl plant in 1986.
The issue will feature prominently on the agenda of the G-7 summit of  industrialised countries -- Canada, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and  the United States -- in Naples in July.
The EU has acknowledged that Ukraine, a country roughly the size of France  and formerly known as the Soviet Union's breadbasket, is in desperate need of  aid to prop up a sharply-declining economy and avoid social break-down.
But Michael Stuermer, an advisor to German Chancellor Helmut Kohl,  suggested in an address here Tuesday that promises of western aid were too  late and that Ukrainian independence would soon exist only on paper.
"In economic terms Ukraine will slip inexorably and helplessly into the  fold of Greater Russia. ... Control of Ukraine (for Russia) means the  difference between a second-rate role in Europe and an empire of global  reach," he said.
