Prime ministers John Major of Britain and Albert  Reynolds of Ireland were meeting here Thursday night after Sinn Fein promised  an answer to their joint peace declaration on Northern Ireland.
The talks were described by Major's office as "informal," intended to take  stock of their governments' respective efforts to come up with guidelines  before the summer for an eventual resumption of all-party peace talks.
Major and Reynolds were also expected to discuss a statement earlier  Thursday by Gerry Adams, leader of the Sinn Fein political wing of the Irish  Republican Army (IRA), which was being seen here as step toward a settlement.
Adams said in Belfast that Sinn Fein would respond to the joint  Anglo-Irish declaration after European Parliament elections to be held here  June 9.
He said he was convinced a settlement would come out of the peace process  which began with the December 15 signing of the so-called Downing Street  declaration, which promised Sinn Fein a place in talks once the IRA renounced  violence.
"I am quite convinced that what is going to come out of this peace process  is a peace settlement - I am quite convinced about it. It is a significant  step," Adams told BBC Radio.
"It is part of one of those steps which are required to advance the peace  process," he said. "It addresses some of the core issues and it dismisses some  of the other questions."
Until now, Sinn Fein has neither accepted nor rejected the joint  declaration, asking for clarifications on specific points which the British  government has in part responded to.
Adams said the fact the Government had responded was in itself "very  significant."
Northern Ireland Secretary Patrick Mayhew meanwhile said Adams' comments  Thursday had "advanced nothing," and a spokesman in Major's office said the  Sinn Fein leader had "failed to answer the key question - when are you going  to stop killing people?"
Officials said the government wanted to hear that the IRA had given up  violence for good, "a clear unequivocal commitment from them to that effect."
The security situation in Northern Ireland, particularly along the border  with the Irish Republic, and Adams' comments, were said to be high on the  Major-Reynolds dinner agenda.
Reynolds told the BBC both governments hoped to complete work on a  "framework" document, which would form the basis for resumed all-party talks,  by the end of June.
"If other people aren't ready to join us around the table, the governments  with the other democratic parties will continue anyway," he said.
"We aren't leaving the stage open to the paramilitaries to dictate the  agenda and we aren't going to be held up by them. As soon as we are ready we  will proceed."
Reynolds said Sinn Fein ought to "stop the killing now so that not a  single other life will be taken while they debate the clarification that has  taken place."
