A two-day orgy of anti-Tibetan violence  has shattered the tranquility of this northern Indian town, where the Tibetan  spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, has lived in exile for nearly 35 years.
Tibetan homes, shops, schools and monasteries still bear the scars of last  month's rampage by scores of Indian youths enraged by the death of a local boy  in a knife fight with a Tibetan.
Glass-fitters have begun the painstaking task of replacing the thousands  of window panes smashed by the angry mobs, but restoring confidence between  Tibetans and their Indian neighbors is likely to take even longer.
"Fear and suspicion still prevail," said Tenzing Sangpo, principal of the  Tibetan Children's Village School, which was targetted by the rioters. "There   is an atmosphere of uncertainty."
Sangpo, who helped douse fires set inside the school serving nearly 700  students between the ages of five and 16, described the attacks as a "total  shock." "Our relations had been healthy," he said.
Dawa Tsering, 40, chief welfare officer for the Tibetan community here,  said many Tibetans had been traumatised.
"I don't think this will happen again, but there is still some fear among  the people," he said. "Many want to leave, and if the Dalai Lama shifts, then  everybody, or at least 99 percent of the Tibetans here, will also go."
Distressed by the violence, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate last week  raised the possibility of moving to another city in India, now home to more  than 100,000 Tibetan refugees, if Tibetans were no longer wanted here.
The Dalai Lama established his headquarters in Dharamsala, nestled in the  foothills of the Himalayas in Himachal Pradesh state, in 1960, a year after  fleeing Tibet following an abortive anti-Chinese uprising.
Between 6,000 and 8,000 Tibetans live in Dharamsala and it houses the  headquarters of the Tibetan government-in-exile as well as hospitals,  monasteries, a library and Tibetan handicrafts and medicine factories.
Tibetan government-in-exile officials here told AFP that the Dalai Lama has  decided to stay put for the moment but has sought "concrete assurances" from  the state authorities that Tibetans would not be victimised again.
Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh urged the Dalai Lama  during two meetings last week to remain in Dharamsala and pledged to improve  security.
Tibetans and Indians said the April 22 stabbing of the local teenager by a  Tibetan provided the spark for years of simmering resentment among some local  Indians over the relative prosperity of the Tibetans to flare into violence.
Dozens of stone-throwing Indian youths attacked Tibetan property the night  of the murder of the local boy and the trouble erupted anew after his  cremation the next day.
Witnesses said Kishan Kapoor, a member of the state assembly from the  Hindu revivalist Bharatiya Janata Party who has demanded that Tibetans leave  Himachal Pradesh, delivered an inflammatory speech at the funeral which sent  mourners on the rampage again.
Tibetans here charged that local police watched the mayhem, in which a  dozen Tibetans were injured, and only moved in when the mobs began looting.
Jagdish Chander, the local magistrate, said Indians here had a number of  grievances against the Tibetans, mainly that there are too many of them, that  they are building on their land and that raw sewage drains into their fields.
"The local people also say that the Tibetans don't allow them to reap the  benefits of tourism," said Chander, referring to the thousands of foreigners  who flock here every year to study or have an audience with the Dalai Lama.
Dawa Tsering, the Tibetan welfare officer, said that although Tibetans  have built schools and sanitation facilities for the local Indian community,  it was obvious they would have to do more to restore communal harmony.
Tempa Tsering, an official Tibetan spokesman, said the violence did not  reflect the views of most Indians living in Dharamsala.
"It's regrettable that a quarrel between two individuals led to a problem  between two communities," he said. "The grievances of local people are there  but they are being highlighted and exploited by local politicians for votes."
