President Bill Clinton said Wednesday  he strongly opposed the US going it alone and ending the arms embargo in the  former Yugoslavia without backing from the European allies.
Clinton has long supported lifting the UN-imposed arms embargo to help the  outgunned Bosnian Moslem forces even the balance in the Balkans war.
However in a speech at the naval academy in Annapolis, Maryland, he came  out adamantly opposed to unilaterally breaking the embargo, saying this "would  kill the peace process."
Such a move would also undermine budding ties with Russia, which is a  historical ally of the Serb forces, and sap the credibility of other UN  embargoes, Clinton warned.
"Our administration will not walk away from this Bosnian conflict, but ...  we must not opt for options that may sound painless and good, but will not  work," he said.
Congress is divided on whether to call on Clinton to seek the allies'  support before ending the arms embargo, or to break the embargo unilaterally.
However despite Clinton's firm stand, lawmakers appear to be leaning in  favor of ignoring strong opposition from the European countries who have  troops on the ground in Bosnia and unilaterally lifting the arms ban, The  Washington Post reported Wednesday.
The Senate recently approved two conflicting resolutions -- one calling  for unilateral action and one for multilateral action leading to a suspension  or limitation of the embargo.
The lower chamber, the House of Representatives, however has agreed to  postpone a vote on the measures until June 9 after White House intervention.
Officials believe the unilateral-action resolution was likely to pass in  the House, while the resolution seeking cooperation between Washington and its  allies would fail, the Post reported.
White House officials also persuaded the House that such a vote would  hobble Clinton ahead of his trip to Europe next week.
In his speech Wednesday -- the last major address before his trip to join  commemorations of D-Day's 50th anniversary -- Clinton said a unilateral  breaking of the arms embargo was a "simplistic idea that sounds good on bumper  stickers."
Britain and France, which have the largest contingents of troops on the  ground in Bosnia, are both completely opposed to lifting the embargo.
If Clinton is hoping to win support for lifting the embargo from his  European allies next week, he will be disappointed by France, at least.
President Francois Mitterrand on Wednesday insisted he was opposed to  lifting the arms embargo, despite pressure from French groups backing the  Moslem-led Sarajevo government's plea for an end to the sanctions.
Mitterrand, who spoke at a cabinet meeting, warned that proposals to  exempt the Sarajevo government from the embargo could trigger an escalation of  the Bosnian conflict that could go well beyond the Balkans, his spokesman Jean  Musitelli said.
With France on Wednesday playing host to talks attended by diplomats from  the European Union, Russia and the United States and by the warring Bosnian  parties, Mitterrand said the "sole alternative to negotiation is war."
Clinton seemed to be of like mind when he said in his Annapolis speech,  "This is one of those conflicts that can only end on the negotiating table,  not on the battlefield."
