The Prince of Wales visits Berlin Friday for two  engagements underlining the changes that have taken place in Europe and the  world since the fall of the famous Wall in 1989.
Prince Charles will be stressing the importance he attaches to the  practice of "good corporate citizenship" by international business leaders to  help underpin social structures in the emerging free market democracies.
The heir to the British throne will also attend the last military parade  in Berlin by British troops, who are preparing to leave the city after  mounting the guard in the long-divided German capital since the end of World  War II.
Before lunch, Prince Charles is to address the closing session of an  Anglo-German top businessmen's "round-table" aimed at promoting corporate  cooperation in assisting the economic changes in central and eastern Europe.
He is expected to urge practical action in order to promote the  development of stable market economies to replace the state-run communist  systems.
The seminar is jointly organised by the Prince of Wales Business Leaders'  Forum, set up on the prince's initiative in 1990, and the East-West Economic  Academy, founded by German industry with government support the same year.
The forum, of which the prince is president, groups international business  leaders "who recognise that good corporate citizenship and sustainable  development are important to global success", according to a forum statement.
Forum members include the heads of Coca-Cola, American Express and British  Petroleum, but German business is the most involved in the free-market  transformation of the former Soviet bloc economies, a forum spokesman said.
Leading seminar participants are to be Sir Allen Sheppard, chairman of the  Grand Metropolitan food and drinks company, and the director-general of the  Federation of German Industries, Ludolf von Wartenberg.
In the evening, Prince Charles will take the salute at the Queen's  Birthday Parade from four honour guards mounted by the 1st Battalion of the  Queen's Lancashire Regiment and the Queen's Colour Squadron of the Royal Air  Force.
Massed military bands and an airplane flypast are also scheduled for this  farewell parade, one of a series being staged this year by the allied forces  in Berlin, which are all due to have left by the end of September.
The French have already said their own farewell, and the allies are to say  a joint farewell to Berlin June 18, after which the Russians are to get a  German send-off August 31 and the western allies a grand finale September 8  and 9.
Some 1,500 British troops currently remain, down from the 3,500 who were  stationed along with their US and French counterparts in the city where, for  some 40 years, the western allies faced off against the Soviet bloc forces.
The prince is also scheduled to step with Berlin mayor Eberhard Diepgen  through the Brandenburg Gate which has come to symbolise much of modern German  history.
He is to make a speech in the city hall expected to focus on relations  between Britain and Berlin past, present and future, and to take a cup of tea  with local German employees who served the British armed forces.
Late the same busy day, the prince will attend a reception for 2,000  guests in the British Brigade Headquarters, at which both he and the Berlin  mayor are again scheduled to make a speech.
