Hundreds of thousands of Rwandan Hutus streamed  south towards Burundi Sunday as troops of the Tutsi-dominated Rwandan  Patriotic Front (RPF) began to close in on the refugee-filled roads.
In Geneva, the International Committee of the Red Cross said some 400,000  Rwandans were fleeing the fighting in the capital Kigali. "They have nothing  to eat and nothing to drink. It is a very grave situation," said ICRC  spokesman Tony Burgener.
According to information received by the United Nations in Kigali, large  numbers of Hutu-dominated government soldiers have also fallen back to the  south.
A UN spokesman said six children were injured when a shell hit and badly  damaged an orphanage during overnight fighting in the city.
The orphanage, run by a Frenchman who refused to leave when foreigners  evacuated last month, was demolished in the attack, forcing the transfer of  120 orphans to another building, spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
The RPF's seizure last week of Kigali airport and the neighbouring  military camp of Kanombe, gave the signal for the latest exodus of Hutus,  following on from earlier waves started in April with the start of fighting  which has left between 200,000 and 500,000 dead.
In the first evacuation, foreign nationals escaped the savage fighting  that followed the April 6 death of president Juvenal Habyarimana in a  suspected rocket attack on his plane.
Then Hutus began to flee after learning that the self-styled Hutu-led  interim government had itself fled Kigali on April 12, falling back to  Gitarama, some 40 kilometres (25 miles) from the capital.
Tutsis, the main victims of the early massacres, also fled, filling  refugee camps in Rwanda, Burundi and Tanzania and hoping for a speedy victory  for the RPF.
After the rebels captured much of south-eastern Rwanda, some 250,000 Hutus  fled overnight to Tanzania, making the refugee camp there, at Benaco, the  largest refugee camp in the world.
And with Kigali's capture seeming just days away, the road to Butare,  close to the border with Burundi, has filled again with fleeing Hutu families,  lining it with their makeshift camps.
Among the refugees, are the Hutu militias, authors of some of the worst  massacres. They now fear the reprisals of the "Inkontanyi" -- an insulting  term for the Tutsis -- and claim they are needed to assure the "civilian  defence" of the road south.
The rebels claimed Friday to have taken Ruhango, a major trading centre 10  kilometres (six miles) south of Gitarama, but this has not been confirmed.
The RPF has advanced up to the Kigali-Gitarama road, which the ICRC now  refuses to use after one of its officials was injured there by rocket fire.
Jean Kambanda, the prime minister of the self-styled government knows he  is "targetted" by the rebels.
"We are taking all the necessary measures," he told reporters at Gitarama  Thursday. He claimed that Uganda, where many of the RPF troops had been  trained, was helping the rebel force.
"We are fighting Uganda," he said.
Meanwhile, in Kigali, the UN said the city was calm Sunday morning while  the RPF maintained its advance west and southwards towards Gitarama. Heavy  fighting continued to rage around the northern town of Ruhengeri, Abdul Kabia  said.
