Fierce artillery battles raged Friday between  Bosnian Serb forces and the Bosnian army in the Vares region in northern  Bosnia, a UN spokesman said Saturday.
UN troops in the Nordic battalion on the scene reported nearly 300  detonations and heavy automatic weapons fire near Vares, 40 kilometres (25  miles) southwest of Tuzla, French Major Eric Chaperon, UN Protection Force  (UNPROFOR) spokesman said.
At Dastansko, three kilometres east of Vares, 13 mortar shells and 17 tank  mortars were fired from positions controlled by the Moslem-dominated Bosnian  army, Chaperon said. A further 265 detonations were reported from Bosnian  territory, provoked by Serb artillery fire, he said.
In another incident, six British UN troops had been held for several hours  at a Serb checkpoint and stripped of their weapons, ammunition and personal  effects, Chaperon said.
He said it occurred at Rogatica, 35 kilometres (20 miles) east of  Sarajevo. The soldiers were on their way to Gorazde in three vehicles.
They were allowed through the Serb checkpoint at Rogatica without any  problems, but then stopped a few kilometres further on and turned back to  Rogatica, where their weapons, ammunition and personal belongings were taken  off them, including their cameras, Chaperon said.
Then the captain of the convoy was forced by the Serbs to read a statement  in front of a camera apologising to the Serbs for having gone through the  checkpoint too quickly, even though Chaperon said the convoy had been  authorised to pass.
At Gorazde in eastern Bosnia, mortar shells were fired Friday evening from  the north of the Moslem enclave, on the limit of the three-kilometre  (1.8-mile) exclusion zone imposed by NATO on Bosnian Serbs.
Fighting was also reported Friday evening just north of the Bosnian  capital Sarajevo. Chaperon said 10 self-propelled grenades had been fired and  heavy machine gun and light weapons fire was heard for around two hours on the  front line separating the Bosnian army and Serb forces.
Chaperon said Viktor Andreev, the UN civil affairs coordinator, paid a call  on Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic in his stronghold of Pale on Friday  afternoon to hear his excuses. Andreev was also due to go to Pale again on  Sunday to clarify rules governing the passage of UNPROFOR convoys through  Serb-controlled Bosnian territory.
Meanwhile the spokesman for the UN High Committee for Refugees, Kris  Janowski, reported that two Saudi aid workers had been missing since May 8 in  the region of Mount Igman, around 20 kilometres from Sarajevo.
The two men, whose names were given as Chafik M. Ayadi and A. Moulehi,  were identified as members of the Muwafaq organisation.
They were last seen at an UNPROFOR checkpoint at Pazarici, at the foot of  the mountain, in Bosnian territory, he said.
After the checkpoint the road to Sarajevo becomes an earth track where it  is very easy to stray into Serb-controlled territory.
