Russian President Boris Yeltsin said Friday he  warned his Ukrainian counterpart Leonid Kravchuk to refrain from using force  against the secessionnist Russian-speaking republic of Crimea, Interfax  reported.
"There cannot be in any instance, any forceful actions undertaken against  Crimea," Yeltsin said he told Kravchuk, adding: "Crimea is a sovereign  (eds:correct) republic within Ukraine and has the right to its own political  stand and the right to make its own decisions."
The Russian leader said Kravchuk reassured him during the telephone  conversation held Thursday by saying: "That's the way it will be."
Yeltsin stressed that Russia as well as central authorities in Kiev should  not meddle in Crimean affairs, saying that "neither we, nor Ukraine" have the  right to intervene.
The Crimean parliament voted Friday to restore a 1992 constitution in a  move that amounted to a declaration of independence.
The constitution establishes treaty relations between Kiev and Crimea,  allows a Crimean citizenship, and provides for forming a local militia force.
Earlier Friday, however, Russian Defence Minister General Pavel Grachev  warned of impending violence in Crimea failing talks to restore calm after the  local parliamentary move towards secession, Interfax reported.
Grachev, speaking after talks with French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe,  warned the tension in Crimea "could ignite a fire unless the situation was  normalised through talks."
Grachev said he had received reports that Kiev had dispatched Ukrainian  troops, including special elite forces, to Crimea and that troops in the Black  Sea region of Odessa had been placed in a state of combat readiness.
He warned both sides against staging "provocations" against the Black Sea  Fleet, saying it belonged to both states and "was governed by two presidents."
Russian nationalist deputy Sergei Baburin meanwhile called on the Russian  parliament Friday to "protect the Crimean constitution and prevent a Ukrainian  coup d'etat" he alleged was being prepared.
Baburin, who heads the nationalist ROS party, told a press conference  organised by several Russian opposition movements that "Russia had interests  in Crimea and should protect them."
The head of the Russian communist party, Gennady Ziuganov, accused  Kravchuk of prompting the crisis in Crimea to "avoid facing the presidential  election" planned in Ukraine on June 26.
The Agrarian Party, close to the communists, said at the press conference  it would send a delegation of deputies to Crimea "to see the situation at  hand," its deputy Nikolai Khaitonov said.
