Palestinian gunmen shot dead two Israeli  settlers and seriously wounded a third in an ambush south of the West Bank  town of Hebron on Tuesday, military officials said.
An anonymous telephone caller to Israel military radio claimed  responsibility for the killing of a man and a woman in the name of Ezzedin al  Kassam, the armed wing of the Islamic Resistance Movement HAMAS.
Automatic weapons fire riddled a passing car close to the Jewish  settlement of Haggai, south of Hebron, in the first killing of Israelis since  the May 4 accord to implement self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho.
The injured settler, who had a bullet in the head, was the daughter of the  dead woman, the officials said. The dead woman was the mother-in-law of the  dead man, who lived in Kiryat Arba, outside Hebron.
The army closed off the area and launched a manhunt for the gunmen who  fled in a Peugeot, which was later found burnt-out in Hebron.
Avi Mar Yosef, secretary at Haggai, said: "The attack took place just 100  metres south of the settlement."
The killings came after 17 Palestinians were wounded in clashes with  settlers and troops on Monday in Hebron, which has remained a flashpoint since  the February  25 massacre of 30 Moslems by a Jewish colonist.
There have been several shootings against Israelis on the Gaza Strip in  recent days and a Jewish lorry driver was seriously wounded near the  settlement of Morag on Thursday when Islamic fundamentalists opened fire.
The fundamentalists of the Islamic Resistance Movement HAMAS have vowed to  fight on against Israeli occupation despite the autonomy deal.
The latest deaths brought to 224 the number of Israelis murdered by  Palestinians since the start of the intifada or uprising in December 1987,  according to an AFP toll.
The last killing of an Israeli dated back to April 21 when a soldier's  dead body was found in East Jerusalem.
Environment Minister Yossi Sarid commented that the clashes in Hebron,  which was under curfew on Tuesday, showed that peaceful co-existence between  Israelis and Palestinian was all but impossible.
"The incidents prove once again that co-existence is complicated,  dangerous and apparently impossible.
"The government will soon have to look again at the decision to allow  settlers to remain in Hebron," he said.
According to an army inquiry about 30 armed settlers from the nearby  hardline settlement of Kyriat Arba went into the town centre on foot and were  stoned by Palestinians. At least two opened fire. Then when troops arrived and  were also stoned they too fired on the crowd.
Hebron Mayor Mustapha Natche accused the settlers of shooting for 40  minutes before soldiers turned up.
He demanded the curfew be lifted. "There is no reason why the Palestinian  people should be punished for the exactions of settlers," he told state radio.
International observers stationed in Hebron to try to improve security for  the Palestinians in the aftermath of the mosque massacre said they were also  carrying out an inquiry into the shootings.
More than 400 Jews have settled in the middle of Hebron, home to about  120,000 Palestinians, and site of the Tomb of the Patriarchs, which is holy in  Judaism and Islam alike.
