Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali  backed a US plan to shelter refugees at Rwanda's borders Friday, but warned  that more was needed.
The UN chief renewed his plea to the 15 council members to agree to a plan  to deploy 5,500 troops to Rwanda as part of a UN humanitarian mission,  reinforcing a UN mission reduced to 270 members.
While welcoming the US initiative to establish protected sites for  refugees close to Rwanda's borders with Burundi and Tanzania, Boutros-Ghali  said concentrating on that "would be to only address a small part of the  problem" and could draw more refugees.
"I believe that it is essential that any such initiative should be matched  by action to assist persons in the interior of Rwanda," he said in a report to  the council.
The proposed UN force would be composed of troops from Tanzania, Nigeria,  Ghana, Senegal and Australia, and would include 800 troops in the Rwandan  capital Kigali to protect the airport and other key sites.
But he said such a mission would be facilitated by a ceasefire between  warring factions in Rwanda, which plunged into chaos and bloody ethnic  fighting following the death of president Juvenal Habyarimana April 6 in a  suspicious plane crash.
Earlier on Friday in Paris, Jacques-Roger Booh-Booh, the UN special  representative to Rwanda said the United Nations' top priority was a ceasefire  between rebels and government soldiers and that negotiations on other topics  would come later.
"For now, it is difficult to resume political negotiations so long as  there is no ceasefire," Booh-Booh said.
"A ceasefire is theoretically possible but certain conditions must be  fulfilled" first, he said referring to the Tutsi rebels' refusal to recognize  the transitional government set up following the death of Habyarimana.
In Geneva, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Jose Ayala Lasso made an  impassioned plea for the world to end the "unimaginable human tragedy" in  Rwanda.
"The world must do something to halt this violence," said Ayala Lasso  after five days in Kigali where he met with the chiefs of the Hutu-led  government army and the mostly Tutsi Rwandan Patriotic Front.
Ayala Lasso said the majority Hutus and minority Tutsis had both welcomed  his proposal to set up a commission to determine the causes of the massacres  which have left some 200,000 dead in the tiny highland eastern African state,  and responsibility for them.
The office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees meanwhile said that  with US planes now operating an airbridge to take aid to some 250,000 Rwandan  refugees in Tanzania had stepped up its efforts and was flying in plastic  sheeting for shelters.
Some 2,000 refugees are continuing to cross the border each day, said  spokesman Ron Redmond.
