Mark Taylor is hot favourite to be named this week  to succeed Allan Border in the toughest job in Australian sport.
Taylor has been heir apparent to the Australian cricket captain for the  past two years. He is not the only candidate, but it would be a major shock  for the selectors not to pick the 29-year-old New South Wales batsman after  Border decided to retire last week.
It won't be easy though. Leading the Australian cricket team reduced Kim  Hughes to tears and even Border once threatened to resign, while at the height  of his career, from the most prestigious position in this sports-orientated  nation.
The Australian Cricket Board is expected to announce the new captain, and  his deputy, on Thursday or Friday. The make-up of the Australian team to tour  Sri Lanka and Pakistan from September will also be revealed. England visit  after that and there is also the World Cup in 1995.
Taylor, 29, who has led Australia in nine limited-over internationals,  winning six one-day matches, is likely to offer a more co-operative approach  to the team captaincy.
For all Border's unparalleled deeds -- test cricket's greatest scorer with  11,174 runs, spiced with a record 156 catches and 93 matches as captain --  critics pointed to his questionable communication skills, sharp mood swings  and negative test strategies.
Taylor is untried in the pressure-cooker demands at test level, but he is  calm, level-headed with tactical flair. When required he can take a hard-line  with players.
Affable, he is nicknamed "Tubby" by fellow players.
In 54 tests the left-handed opening batsman has accumulated 4,275 runs at  an average of 46.97 with 12 hundreds.
His only flaw would appear to be his failure, in the selectors' eyes, to  nail down a spot in the one-day team, with some pointing to his labouring  scoring rate at the start of innings.
But he is liked and respected by teammates, he is articulate and appears  to be held in high regard by cricket officialdom.
David Boon, the country's fourth highest run-getter in tests behind  Border, Greg Chappell and Donald Bradman, wins on experience with 89 Tests,  but the Tasmania player will be 34 next season and cannot be considered a  long-term proposition.
Taylor's state teammate Steve Waugh, who headed the Australian batting  averages in the three test series against New Zealand and South Africa home  and away last season, is a plausible candidate.
Waugh, the twin brother of upper order batsman Mark, is regarded by  teammates as the cricket brain of the test side and an intense competitor. His  game has toughened over the last few seasons and, approaching 29, he looms as  a definite contender.
Waugh, a brilliant one-day performer, has played 65 tests scoring almost  3,500 runs at a healthy average of 43.68 with seven centuries.
Queensland wicketkeeper Ian Healy, recently turned 30, has the drawback of  his strained past relations with umpires. His cause could be hindered at a  time when the ACB are sensitive about player behaviour in the wake of the  Shane Warne-Merv Hughes incidents in South Africa earlier this year.
But if Waugh is disappointed in the captain's stakes he will still be a  strong contender with Healy to be Taylor's vice-captain.
