Northern forces fired two missiles at the  southern capital Aden on Thursday in what officials here called a "serious  escalation" of the three-week civil war.
The Soviet-made Lunas were aimed at the airport, but one plunged into the  sea while the other was hit in flight by anti-missile fire and disintegrated,  with debris damaging parked cars.
The attack came just two days after a southern missile slammed into a  densely populated area of the northern capital Sanaa, killing at least 13  people and wounding more than 100.
A spokesman here for the breakaway southern Yemen Democratic Republic said  the attack on Aden was a "serious escalation of the war."
It showed the "Sanaa government's lack of credibility -- on one hand it  says it is ready to accept a ceasefire while on the other hand it fires  missiles at Aden."
Planning Minister Abdelkarim al-Iryani, a close ally of President Ali  Abdallah Saleh, said Wednesday the north was ready for a ceasefire provided  leaders of the southern Yemen Socialist Party recognised Yemeni unity and the  Sanaa government.
However, he ruled out negotiations with southern leader Ali Salem al-Baid  or former prime minister Haidar Abubakr al-Attas.
He also said that no decision had been taken to "simply start bombing  Aden" before attempts at finding a political solution were exhausted.
Iryani's promise of a ceasefire was "only a manoeuvre," charged Abdel  Rahman al-Jiffri, vice chairman of the presidential council set up to run the  breakaway southern state.
"A ceasefire would only be acceptable if Ali Abdallah Saleh's forces  withdraw to their former positions," on the other side of the old border  between North and South Yemen, which united four years ago.
"In this event, unconditional negotiations can begin under the auspices of  the Arab League," he said Thursday.
As officials on both sides traded verbal punches, their armies were locked  in heavy fighting on several fronts.
The battle for Al-Anad, a key base controlling the northern approaches to  Aden, had heated up again, preventing correspondents from reaching the area.
There were intense artillery duels on the main battle fronts, particularly  in the oil-rich Shabwa province and to the northwest of Aden, where the  streets again echoed to the distant thunder of heavy guns.
