International inspectors have concluded that  North Korea has not diverted fuel from a nuclear reactor for use in weapons,  Defense Secretary William Perry said Friday.
Perry said that North Korea's move to begin removing fuel rods despite  objections by the International Atomic Energy Agency "does not mean that the  spent fuel is being diverted for weapons purposes."
The defense secretary maintained, however, that inspectors should be  allowed to continue to monitor the fuel removal process and to conduct a  technical analysis of the fuel rods to determine whether fuel was diverted in  the past.
The Vienna-based IAEA said late Thursday that North Korea had begun  extracting fuel rods from its five-megawatt Yongbyon reactor in a "serious  violation" of IAEA inspection terms.
According to the Pentagon, the fuel rods in the reactor at Yongbyon  nuclear complex contain enough plutonium for four or five nuclear bombs.
The Central Intelligence Agency has estimated that North Korea withdrew  enough plutonium in the late 1980s to make at least one nuclear device.
North Korea has denied that it has a nuclear weapons program but has  balked at international inspections, provoking sharp criticism from Washington  and discussions of possible UN economic sanctions on Pyongyang.
The IAEA and North Korea remain at odds over how to monitor the removal of  the rest of the nearly 8,000 nuclear fuel rods.
Robert Gallucci, an assistant secretary of state involved in formulating  Korea policy, said Friday that if the IAEA's inspection demands were met, the  United States was ready to begin a new round of top-level talks with the North.
The US broke off talks last July because of North Korea's refusal to allow  international inspections of their nuclear facilities.
Earlier Friday, the IAEA rejected a North Korean proposal to keep fuel  rods in a "safe place under seal" ahead of resumed talks on the issue.
"That won't work. We will no longer be able to verify with certainty if  any of the nuclear material has been diverted," said an IAEA official.
