The always private Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis  died at home the way she had wanted, surrounded by the people she loved, said  her son here Friday.
"My mom passed on surrounded by her friends and family and her books with  people she loved," said John Kennedy Jnr. outside Onassis' Fifth Avenue  Manhattan apartment.
"She did it her own way, on her own terms and we all feel lucky for that,"  he added.
The former First Lady passed away Thursday night after losing a battle  with cancer. She was 64.
Onassis' spokeswoman Nancy Tuckerman said the funeral would be private,  the way Onassis, who had shunned the spotlight since the assassination of  President John Kennedy in Dallas in November 1963, wanted.
Outside the Manhattan appartment where Onassis' body still remained,  several bouquets lay in the doorway, one left by a jogger as she trotted by.
Across the street dozens of people mingled, many red-eyed from crying.
"I'm going to wait for her to come out. I don't care what time she comes  out," said one mourner.
As the death of the woman who became the closest modern America ever had  to royalty, dominated television and radio, tributes poured in.
President Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, on Friday remembered her as  a model of courage and dignity.
"Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis was a model of courage and dignity for all  Americans and all the world," Clinton said.
"More than any other woman of her time, she captivated our nation and the  world with her intelligence, her elegance and her grace.
"Even in the face of impossible tragedy, she carried the grief of her  family and our entire nation with a calm power that somehow reassured all of  us who mourned," the president said.
Lady Bird Johnson praised her courage.
"In times of hope she captured our hearts. In tragedy her courage helped  salve a nation's grief," said the widow of former president Lyndon B. Johnson.
Among the most lasting images of the former First Lady following the 1963  assassination, was a picture of her standing calmly next to Kennedy's new  grave holding the hands of their two small children.
Another showed her in the plane which brought her husband's corpse back to  Washington, standing dazed in a blood-stained dress as Vice-President Johnson  took the oath of office.
The widow also of Greek shipping tycoon Aristotle Onassis, she checked in  Monday for the last time at New York's Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, where  former president Richard Nixon died earlier this month.
She decided to go home on Wednesday to die after doctors said nothing more  could be done for her.
Tuckerman said that Onassis had signed a living will, requesting that no  extraordinary measure be taken to keep her alive.
Shortly before her death Onassis went into a coma. She had refused to take  medication.
"When she died it was very peacefull. She just sort of slipped away," said  Tuckerman.
Onassis first revealed last February that she was suffering from  non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a cancer of the lymph system.
Despite becoming weaker and weaker she still tried to get out. Only last  Sunday she was spotted walking with a friend in Central Park.
A five hour interview with her made 10 years go by writer William  Manchester, author of "The Death of a President" remain sealed by a court  order until 2067.
In 1966 Onassis tried to block Manchester's book because it revealed what  she considered intimate family details. Manchester, who became a family  friend, agreed to drop some passages.
