The new leader of Thailand's largest opposition  party, Chart Thai, has managed to turn recent scandals involving party MPs to  his advantage, positioning himself as a possible future prime minister.
When the party should have been reeling from allegations of drug  trafficking, illegal gambling and corruption among members, Banharn  Silpa-archa won sympathetic treatment in the local press for his actions.
Banharn, who took over the party leadership May 7 when his predecessor was  kicked upstairs, moved decisively Saturday to drop MP Thanong Siripreecapong  from the party and thus from parliament.
He made it clear it was his decision to date and sign a pro-forma letter  of resignation which Thanong sent him a week earlier after it was learned he  had been indicted in the United States for marijuana smuggling.
Several analysts compared Banharn favorably with Prime Minister Chuan  Leekpai, who has been criticized as indecisive.
But the charismatic Banharn, in typical Thai style, refuses to say  outright that he wants the premier's post.
"If I said one word, I would have a hundred more enemies. If I said two  words, there would be two hundred more," Banharn said in a lengthy interview  published last week in the Bangkok Post.
Asked again by The Sunday Nation about his ambitions, Banharn noted: "Not  everyone can become prime minister. You have to be highly competent,  acceptable to the public, and lucky.
Although Banharn said Thanong's resignation should improve the party's  image, the case is not the only problem it faces.
Another 20 politicians -- including MPs from Chart Thai and Chart  Pattana, as well as Premier Chuan's Democrat Party -- were said last week to  be implicated in drug trafficking.
And in news which proved more embarrassing than damaging, Chart Thai MP  Chongchai Thiengthem was arrested Friday in a pre-dawn police raid on a  gambling den.
One analyst suggested that the implication of members of parliament (MPs)  from other parties helped Banharn make his decision to drop Thanong, as Chart  Thai was no longer the only party under a cloud.
Chart Thai, a conservative, pro-military party, suffered its biggest blow  in February 1991 when Prime Minister Chatichai Choonhavan's Chart Thai-led  government was overthrown in a bloodless coup.
Coup leader General Suchinda Kraprayoon said the military took action  because of rampant, high-level corruption. Banharn was one of 25 "unusually  wealthy" politicians targeted for investigation at the time, but he was  subsequently cleared.
A self-made man who said he has handed over all business interests to his  eldest daughter, the entrepreneur told the Bangkok Post he had spent four  months collecting evidence about his assets.
"Nobody did the way I did. Every baht and satang I made was recorded," he  said.
Nicknamed the "mobile ATM", or cash-dispensing machine, for his generosity  toward other MPs, Banharn indicated to The Sunday Nation he was not impatient  for a change of government, although he accused it of "inefficiencies."
Analysts said Chart Thai, to burnish its image, might yet try to join the  current government, a five-party coalition seen to have gained strength by  default, because of the opposition's problems.
