Russia's most famous emigre writer Alexander  Solzhenitsyn returns to his troubled homeland Friday after 20 years of exile.       Here is a selection of quotes from "Rebuilding Russia", Solzhenitsyn's  reflection on the challenges facing his homeland as it breaks away from  communism.
The Russian text entitled "Kak Nam Obustroit Rossiyu" was first published  in the newspapers Komsomolskaya Pravda and Literaturnaya Gazeta in 1990. The  English edition was published in 1991 by HarperCollins.
On Russia's communist legacy: "Time has finally run out for communism. But  its concrete edifice has not yet crumbled. May we not be crushed beneath its  rubble instead of gaining liberty."
On Russia's borders: "As I see it, it must be declared loudly, clearly,  and without delay that the three republics in the Baltic area, the three in  Transcaucasia, four in Central Asia, and Moldavia as well, if it feels drawn  to Romania -- that these eleven will be separated off unequivocally and  irreversibly."
"And so, after subtracting these twelve republics there will remain  nothing but an entity that might be called Rus, as it was designated in olden  times.
On Ukraine: "All the talk of a separate Ukrainian people existing since  something like the ninth century and possessing its own non-Russian language  is a recently invented falsehood."
On women and family: "Normal families have virtually ceased to exist in  our country. Yet family ills are at the same time critically serious maladies  for the states, and the family has a fundamental role in the salvation of our  future. Women must have the opportunity to return to their families to take  care of the children: the salary earned by men must make this possible."
On Russia's youth: "Unprovided for by either family or school, our young  people have been developing in the direction of unreflecting and barbarous  emulation of things enticingly foreign, not to say in the direction of crime."
On the economy: "There can be no independent citizen without private  property."
"We must learn to respect healthy, honest and intelligent private commerce  (and to distinguish it from predatory dealings built on bribes or the  swindling of inept mangement): such commerce stimulates and unifies society,  and it is one of the very first things we need."
"It is a dangerous idea to attempt to salvage by means of foreign capital what  has been destroyed by our internal disarray."
On spirituality: "If a nation's spiritual energies have been exhausted, it  will not be saved from collapse by the most perfect government structure or by  any industrial development: a tree with a rotten core cannot stand."
On democracy: "The whole flow of modern history will unquestionably  predispose us to choose democracy. But in opting for democracy we must  understand clearly just what we are choosing, what price we shall have to pay,  and that we are choosing it as a means, not as an end in itself."
Elections: "Direct elections i.e. those in which deputies of all levels  are elected directly by the popular vote, are especially open to question in a  country as huge as ours. Such a system results in voters not knowing their  deputies, a situation that benefits the smoothest talkers as well as  individuals with strong behing-the-scenes support."
