Political opponents of Russian President Boris  Yeltsin launched a bitter attack Saturday on his economic reform policies at a  congress being held to map out a united opposition strategy.
In an opening speech, former foreign trade minister Sergei Glaziyev  criticized the "destruction of entire sectors of the economy" which was now  "irreversible."
The meeting was the founding congress of an opposition alliance set up  informally in February with the backing of leaders of last October's  parliamentary revolt against Yeltsin including former vice president Alexander  Rutskoi.
The head of the Russian Communist Party, Gennady Zyuganov, is also taking  an active part.
The nationalist and hardline communist leaders, meeting in a hall which  was formerly part of the Russian parliament, all refused to sign a pact in  April between Yeltsin and the opposition which was aimed at putting an end to  the political strife that has plagued his presidency.
Rutskoi was among the 300 delegates taking part in Saturday's "National  Council" which could designate him later in the day as their leader and  candidate in the June 1996 presidential elections.
He wants the opposition to get down immediately to the task of preparing  for a general election at the end of next year.
"We have to take the majority of seats in parliament," he said in an  interview Friday with the daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, reiterating that he will  run for president.
"At present I do not see any credible leader in the opposition for whom I  could make way," Rutskoi said. "But I am ready to do so.
"Above all, we are looking to the patriotic forces, which for the time  being are split up into a multitude of different parties, socio-political  movements and foundations.
"If the 'patriots' do not manage to reach an agreement with the  communists, then the communists will put up their own candidate," he said.
In Rutskoi's view, the "crisis in our society will be settled only by the  presidential elections."
He dismissed initiatives such as Yeltsin's social pact, saying they would  "serve no purpose, other than to aggravate the explosive situation in the  country."
Elsewhere in the long interview, he recounted the four-and-a-half months  he spent in the Lefortovo prison.
He was captured on October 4 in the White House parliament building, where  hardline lawmakers had been holed up in defiance of Yeltsin's decree  suspending parliament, and freed on February 26, after the Duma voted to  release him.
