Southern forces sent in warplanes and fired  rockets to block a northern thrust on Aden from two new fronts to the west of  this key city on Tuesday.
The fighting flared as the UN Security Council was due to debate the  conflict later in the day.
Troops backing President Ali Abdallah Saleh were "indiscriminately  shelling schools and public buildings" in villages 105 kilometers (62 miles)  to the northwest in Lahij province in a new offensive, a military spokesman  said.
But southern forces loyal to Ali Salem al-Baid have "countered the  northern offensive" begun on Monday after calling in warplanes that inflicted  "heavy losses" on the enemy, he added.
The north launched the new attack "after its failure" at the southern  Al-Anad air base 60 kilometers north of Aden, and Bab al-Mandab/Kharaz, 120  kilometers (72 miles) west of here.
Correspondents also reported heavy fighting on another new front 60  kilometres (37 miles) west of here, with northern tanks, hidden in sand dunes,  firing shells at southern forces, who were firing multiple rocket launchers.
The two sides were also fighting on Tuesday along the Abyan front and in  the southern oil region of Shabwa, both east of Aden.
Several MiG-21 fighter jets were spotted taking off from Aden airport.
The UN Security Council was to discuss the war that broke out on May 5  after a nine-month dispute between Saleh and his vice president Baid over  sharing power in Yemen -- the product of a 1990 merger between South and North  Yemen.
Baid proclaimed a breakaway Yemen Democratic Republic on May 21, but it  has not been recognised internationally.
The government of united Yemen in Sanaa has sent envoys to New York to  take part in the Security Council debate even though it says it amounts to  interference in the country's internal affairs.
Saudi Arabia and its Gulf neighbor Oman have each offered the United  Nations proposals on how to settle the conflict.
Abdel Aziz Abdel Ghani, one of the northern envoys, said in Amman on  Tuesday while en route to New York that the decision to hold a council debate  without consulting Sanaa "set a dangerous precedent."
"The unity of Yemen is a reality and nobody can make this country go back  to the situation that existed before the declaration of its unity" in May  1990, he said.
The south has welcomed UN efforts to bring about a ceasefire.
The Yemeni government appealed Monday for urgent international aid to help  victims of the war, the UN representative in Sanaa, Ouni al-Hani said.
It requested tents for an estimated 100,000 persons who have been displaced  by the fighting along with medicine and food, adding it would be made  available to "all areas of Yemen," he said.
The government has also appealed for help in rebuilding public facilities  damaged by the fighting.
