Fighting raged in Kigali on Sunday on the eve of  ceasefire talks between rebel and government forces, and the United Nations  said part of the interim government had fled its base southwest of the capital.
The combat, sporadic but at times heavy, forced the United Nations to  suspend its evacuation of civilians from Kigali, a UN spokesman said.
In Geneva, the International Committee of the Red Cross said some 400,000  Rwandans had fled the fighting in the capital: "They have nothing to eat and  nothing to drink. It is a very grave situation," said ICRC spokesman Tony  Burgener.
UN spokesman Abdul Kabia, contacted by telephone from Nairobi, said: "Our  information is that a substantial number of government officials have left  Gitarama for Kibuye (west) and Butare (south), but some are still there."
It was not immediately clear whether the interim Prime Minister Jean  Kambanda was among the officials who reportedly fled.
The self-declared interim government fled Kigali on April 12, and  established its base near Gitarama, 50 kilometres, (35 miles) southwest of the  capital, after Rwanda Patriotic Front rebels launched an offensive on the city.
The rebels have been tightening their grip on Kigali over the past couple  of weeks and are reported to have advanced within seven kilometres (five  miles) of Gitarama.
There was also heavy fighting around the northern town of Ruhengeri, Kabia  said.
The Hutu-led interim administration was formed in the wake of the April 6  death of President Juvenal Habyarimana, a Hutu, in a suspected rocket attack  on his plane.
Habyarimana's death unleashed a frenzy of bloodletting in which an  estimated 200,000 to half a million people -- mainly minority Tutsis but also  Hutu opponents of the late president -- have been killed.
Earlier Kabia had said soldiers planned to continue the operation to  evacuate civilians on Monday if rebels and government forces guaranteed safe  passage for UN convoys.
A UN convoy carrying evacuees came under fire on Saturday near a  roundabout but nobody was hurt.
UN troops successfully transferred more than 1,000 people from both Hutu  and Tutsi communities to safer areas outside Kigali on Friday and Saturday.
Overnight, a shell injured six children at an orphanage run by a Frenchman  who refused to leave when foreigners evacuated last month. It was partially  demolished in the attack, forcing the transfer of 120 orphans to another  building, Kabia said.
UN military sources said the shell was possibly fired from a rebel  position in the city.
UN-sponsored ceasefire talks were scheduled to open in Kigali on Monday,  Kabia said. They will be chaired by the deputy commander of the UN mission,  Brigadier-General Henry Anyidoho.
It was not immediately clear who would represent rebel and government  sides.
Kabia warned that some 35,000 displaced people in Kigali were on the verge  of starvation because no relief supplies have arrived in the city for the past  couple of days.
"The situation is so desperate that UN troops have been forced to share  their rations of food and water with the most needy women and children," he  said.
"I presume the situation is worse outside Kigali," he added, launching an  appeal to international relief agencies to send in food.
The UN World Food Programme said on Saturday that there were an estimated  1.6 million displaced people in desperate need of food aid inside Rwanda.
