Rwanda's army and rebels fought fierce artillery  battles in Kigali on Wednesday, delaying talks between a special UN envoy and  the rump government to plan the return of peacekeepers, a UN spokesman said.
The fighting, in which several civilians were killed and injured, flared  after two days of relative calm, broken by occasional shelling and small arms  fire, as both sides observed a partial truce during the visit of UN envoy  Iqbal Riza, UN spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
"The shelling has resumed and it's very heavy," Kabia told AFP by  telephone from Kigali. Mortars thundered in the background as he spoke.
Two Rwandan Red Cross workers were killed and five others seriously  wounded when a shell slammed into the Red Cross compound in Kigali near a  field hospital, an official of the International Committee of the Red Cross  said in Nairobi.
The Red Cross opened the field hospital last month to ease the strain on  Kigali's overcrowded main hospital, where 30 patients were killed in shelling  last week.
The upsurge in fighting forced Riza to postpone a meeting planned for  Wednesday morning with the government proclaimed after the death of president  Juvenal Habyarimana in a suspected April 6 rocket attack on his plane.
Riza eventually left Kigali four hours behind schedule for Gitarama, 40  kilometres (25 miles) to the southwest, where the government fled last month  to escape fighting in the blood-sodden capital, while a UN mission in Rwanda  was cut back from 2,500 to just 400 men.
The mainly Tutsi rebels have criticised the meeting which they say lends  legitimacy to the all-Hutu government proclaimed after Habyarimana's death  last month, despite peace accords under which a coalition government was to  have been formed.
The rebels last week fired on a convoy driving former French humanitarian  minister Bernard Kouchner back to Kigali from meetings with the government in  Gitarama.
But Kabia said they had "promised to do everything to facilitate the visit  of the UN envoy." He stressed that the talks "do not constitute recognition of  the government."
Riza met leaders of the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) in their  northern headquarters at Mulindi on Monday, but failed to persuade them to  drop their demand for the United Nations to cut its planned 5,500-strong force  to 2,500.
The rebels, who according to UN military officials are on the verge of  flushing battered and demoralised government soldiers out of Kigali, seem  concerned that UN peacekeepers might arrive before they have had time to rout  the army.
Thousands of people, mainly Hutus, are fleeing Kigali before the expected  RPF takeover, and rebel guerrillas are also marching through swamps towards  Gitarama, and have cut off the government from the capital.
They have expressed fears that 5,500 soldiers could intervene in the  raging civil war, though the planned UN force would not try to stop fighting.
Its mission would be limited to protecting civilians and escorting relief  convoys to millions of needy Rwandans who have fled their homes to escape  death squads.
Up to half a million people have been hacked, clubbed, burned or shot to  death in six weeks of frenzied ethnic slaughter unleashed by Habyarimana's  death.
Much of the bloodletting has been blamed on beer-swilling Hutu militiamen  only loosely controlled by the government. Most victims were minority Tutsis  or Hutu opposition supporters.
The UN Commission on Human Rights, meeting Wednesday in emergency session  in Geneva, was expected to appoint a special rapporteur to investigate the  slaughter, make recommendations on how to end it and furnish evidence for  possible war crimes trials.
UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali has complained that  member-states are reluctant to contribute troops for Rwanda.
Diplomats here voiced further doubts about the UN's ability to muster the  force after the failure of its multinational peacekeeping mission in Somalia.
