The mainly Moslem northeastern  Bosnian industrial town of Tuzla entered its third year of conflict Sunday  with UN reports describing the situation on nearby fronts as "very tense."
Life still showed no signs of returning to normal for the town's 200,000  residents after bombardments which killed two people and seriously injured  four more last Wednesday continued.
Another shell smashed into the beleaguered city's outskirts Saturday  afternoon and sirens warning people of further attack could be heard across  Sunday.
Local authorities meanwhile prepared to hold a ceremony to mark the second  anniversary of the conflict, which broke out here exactly two years ago.
Despite the unrest, the town is currently playing host to the final phase  of Bosnia's basketball championships, a tournament which will decide who  represents the nation in international competition next season.
The UN Protection Force spokesman for the north-east sector of the  conflict, Captain Jens Kirk, told AFP that 196 shells crashed down Saturday in  the nearby Vares sector, controlled by the Moslem-dominated Bosnian government  army.
Kirk added that, early morning Sunday, a further eight shells had been  fired at Vares, some 45 kilometres (27 miles) south of Tuzla. Vares straddles  a maze of routes linking northeast Bosnia to Sarajevo and the Dalmatian coast.
A further 100 shells rained down Saturday on the "Sapna finger" east of  Tuzla, and a UN armoured patrol of Nordic troops came under automatic arms  fire on both Saturday and Sunday, Kirk said. "Three bullets pierced the  vehicle, but no-one was wounded."
Bosnian government forces managed over the weekend to take control of Serb  positions at Vijenac hill, near Lukavac, southwest of Tuzla, "from where some  of the shells hitting our villages and Tuzla had been fired," Bosnian Colonel  Ekrem Advic, head of the press servic of the Bosnian army's Second Corps told  AFP.
The capture by the Bosnian army of "some 10 square kilometres" (four  square miles) of land in the sector was confirmed by sources close to the UN  Protection Force, who linked the Bosnian offensive and the shelling of Tuzla  Wednesday.
The six mortar shells fired on the town then in two waves -- four on the  old town in the late morning and two in the eary evening on the main  residential quarter -- led the authorities to close schools and markets.
Despite that precautionary move, some traders, including grocers and  cigarette-vendors, took their merchandise to the main market Sunday. Cafes,  too, were open to receive a flood of customers determined to enjoy one of the  first warm days of spring.
The ceremony organised by civil and military authorities to mark the two  years of conflict was meanwhile set to go ahead as planned, but indoors.
Several hundred people were killed in the clashes when the fighting  erupted in Tuzla on May 15, 1992, six weeks after the conflict enveloped the  Bosnian capital Sarajevo. Sources said those early clashes resulted from an  attempt to ambush Yugoslav federal army units threatening to take control the  town.
