The other women through to the quarter-finals were rising Argentian star  Ines Gorrochategui, Petra Ritter of Austria, sixteenth-seed Sabine Hack of  Germany and Pierce's compatriot, Julie Halard.
Halard, 23, ended the hopes of 1988 Natalia Zvereva of Belarus, Hack beat  Shaun Stafford of the United States, Ritter won a three-set battle against  Romania's Ruxandra Dragomir and Gorrochategui defeated Croatian teenager Iva  Majoli in straight-sets.
Only five of the original 16 women's seeds survived the first week.
In the men's tournament, Sampras needed to keep cool and was reminded of  the dangers of clay-court tennis when he came up against astonishing Swedish  qualifier Mikael Tillstrom who put out big-serving 16th-seed Richard Krajicek  of the Netherlands in the third-round.
The 24-year-old from Gothenburg, ranked 236th in the world, pushed the  American close to the limits in a thrilling fourth-set in which Sampras had to  save four break points.
The American, who is hoping to clinch a mid-season 'Grand Slam' with his  fourth consecutive major title here, finally clinched a 6-4, 6-4, 1-6, 6-4  victory.
He now plays compatriot and old rival Jim Courier.
Courier, three matches away from his third French title in four years,  also needed to work hard and faced two tie-breaks in his match against plucky  76th-ranked Frenchman Olivier Delaitre.
An appreciative centre-court crowd, enjoying a day of bright sunshine,  cheered both players off after the seventh-seeded Courier completed a 6-1, 6-7  (7/9), 6-1, 7-6 (8/6) win.
Defending champion Sergi Bruguera kept alive his hopes of retaining his  crown when he outplayed promising Australian Patrick Rafter 6-4, 6-3, 6-1.
The 26th-ranked Rafter, still learning his trade on his least-favourite  surface, was slowly worn down by the Spanish baseliner who will now face  fourth-seeded Andrei Medvedev of the Ukraine.
Medvedev, who was beaten by Bruguera in last year's semi-final, earlier  defeated Dutch opponent Jacco Eltingh 6-4, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1.
kd94
