US opposition to Singapore's hosting a  conference on world trade is based on cost and not the caning of a US  teen-ager, the ambassador-designate to Singapore said Wednesday.
Timothy Chorba, who attended a Senate hearing on his confirmation, said  cost reasons were the principal factor in Washington's opposition to holding  the founding meeting of the new World Trade Organization in Singaore.
Chorba said the decision was unrelated to the caning of US teen-ager  Michael Fay earlier this month, who received four lashes with a rattan cane as  part of a sentence for vandalism despite protests from Washington.
"The US position on this issue is not related to the caning incident,"  Chorba said. "It's one of long-standing policy to favor holding meetings of  multilateral organizations in the cities in which their secretariats are  headquartered, for reasons of cost efficiency."
The WTO is to replace the Geneva-based General Agreement on Tariffs and  Trade following the signing of the Uruguay Round calling for a dramatic drop  in worldwide duties.
US opposition to holding the meeting in Singapore was announced several  days after the caning by US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor.
Chorba, an international corporate lawyer with no prior diplomatic  experience, also told the panel the administration of President Bill Clinton  remained in favor of the porposed sale of F-18 warplanes to Singapore.
"The administration would favor proceeding with the sale of the F-18 or  the F-16, whichever Singapore selects," said Chorba.
Asked about linking trade to human rights issues as has been discussed  with China, Chorba said the Clinton administration did not have a blanket  policy for all countries, but said the matter is "a real Gordian knot."
"The dilemma is one between weighing progress on human rights with the  possibility or the likelihood that continued economic relations will lead to  ... economically adavnced socities which will in turn give rise to internal  pushes for greater democraticization," he said.
