Russian Viatcheslav Ekimov  scored a convincing victory in the final time trial on Sunday to seal victory  in the Tour DuPont after leading the 12-day cycle race for the final six days.
Ekimov completed the 27-kilometer final stage from Kernersville to  Winston-Salem in 34 minutes and 3 seconds. His total overall time was 47 hours  14 minutes and 29 seconds.
American Lance Armstrong was second overall, 1:24 seconds behind Ekimov.
Armstrong finished runner-up for the second straight year in his country's  premier cycling event.
Italian Andrea Peron was third overall, 2:43 back.
Canadian Steve Bauer was second in the closing stage with a time of 34:31.  France's Jean-Francois Bernard was third, second seconds behind Bauer.
Ekimov, an eight-time world track champion who has broadened his skills  with a new mountain training regime, took the overall lead last Monday with a  24-second victory in another time-trial stage.
He maintained a lead of about half a minute over Armstrong over the  ensuing five stages through the mountains of Virginia and North Carolina.
"After I took the lead I thought about the final time trial every day,"  Ekimov said. "I thought maybe Lance could do something, but in the mountains  he couldn't pull away, so I felt good."
Ekimov, the 1988 Olympic pursuit gold medallist who won six races last  year and the Tour of Valencia in February, earned 40,000 dollars for the  Dutch-based WordPerfect team.
Armstrong, the world road racing champion, twice managed to knock four  seconds off Ekimov's lead, but he was unable to get any closer as Ekimov  finished just in front of just behind him in the last six stages.
"I did my best, but it wasn't good enough," Armstrong said. "Anyone who  wins both time trials deserves to win the race."
Three-time Tour de France winner Greg LeMond, whose DuPont victory in 1992  made him the only American ever to win the event, finished 35th in the closing  stage and 22nd overall, 10:39 behind Ekimov.
Mexico's defending champion Raul Alcala, who won the prologue, tied for  ninth overall, 6:13 behind.
bb94
