Australian police Tuesday charged roadworker Ivan  Milat with the murders of seven backpackers, five of them foreigners, whose  bodies were found in a dense forest with multiple knife or bullet wounds.
The remains of two Britons, three Germans and two Australians were  discovered in shallow graves in a forest south of here between September 1992  and November 1993.
The macabre discoveries launched the biggest murder hunt in Australia's  history.
Milat, arrested nine days ago, was charged with the murders after police  found firing mechanisms from a Ruger rifle inside the wall cavity of his  modest bungalow home in southern Sydney.
Prosecutor Ian Lloyd told a packed court in the southern suburb of  Campbelltown that the firing mechanism found in Milat's Eagle Vale home had  fired cartridges found at the scene of two of the murders.
The dark-haired 49-year-old Milat sat impassively, whispering occasionally  to his lawyer, as Lloyd described the fate of those he was accused of  murdering.
Milat appeared unkempt in the first hearing eight days ago, but at  Tuesday's hearing he was wearing a neat pin-striped shirt, had shaved off his  heavy moustache and looked to have had a haircut.
John Marsden, Milat's lawyer, said his client strongly denied the serious  allegations against him.
Milat who did not apply for bail, is due to make another court appearance  on June 28. No plea was taken.
"While he is not going for bail, he certainly wants it recorded that he  denies those allegations strongly," Marsden said, adding that "as a member of  the community" Milat was concerned at "media hype" surrounding the case.
The sturdy roadworker was charged with killing Germans Gabor Neugebauer  and his girlfriend, Anja Habschied, on or about December 26, 1991.
When their bodies were discovered in Belanglo state forest, Lloyd said,  Habschied was naked from the waist down and had been decapitated.
"Habschied's head had been severed at the neck, apparently in one blow, and  despite an extensive search, the head has not been discovered," he told the  court.
Australian backpackers James Gibson and Deborah Everist, both 19, were   murdered on or about December 30, 1989, but their bodies were not found until  October 1993, the court heard.
"The skeletal remains of Gibson indicate that he had suffered multiple  stab wounds," Lloyd said. Everist's remains indicated "slicing-type" injuries  on the skull and a broken jaw.
British women Caroline Clarke and Joanne Walters, both 22, were murdered  around April 18, 1992, and their bodies found in September 1992, the court  heard.
Clarke had been shot 10 times in the head and stabbed once while Walters  had been gagged, stabbed in her back and chest, and "there is evidence she had  been sexually assaulted," Lloyd said.
The body of 20-year-old German tourist Simone Schmidl, allegedly killed on  or about January 20, 1991, as she hitchhiked to Melbourne, was found in  November 1993 with multiple stab wounds in the back.
Lloyd said police searched the homes of Milat's brothers Alexander, in  Queensland, and Walter, in Hilltop south of Sydney, finding a backpack and  daypack similar to Schmidl's, a sleeping mat similar to Clarke's and  ammunition from the same batch found at the murder scene of Neugebauer and  Habschied.
Milat had a hidden arsenal of guns and ammunition at his brother Walter's  home, the court heard, including ammunition, four shotguns, a crossbow, a .44  revolver, three Ruger rifles and a Chinese assault rifle.
A search of Milat's home on May 22 allegedly uncovered a .32 self-loading  pistol, a silencer and -- hidden in the lounge room wall cavity -- a white  plastic bag containing magazines and the firing mechanism of a Ruger 10/22.
"Ballistic examinations positively identify the bolt as being a component  of the firearm which discharged the cartridges found at the Clarke/Walters and  Neugebauer/Habschied murder scenes," Lloyd said.
Milat was also charged with the attempted murder of a 24-year-old English  male tourist, identified only as victim A, who allegedly escaped after getting  a lift with Milat on January 25, 1990
In a previous hearing, the court heard that the man escaped by flagging  down a car as Milat allegedly chased him with a gun threatening to shoot. The  tourist has identified Milat as his attacker.
Outside the court, Marsden appealed for the media to allow his client a  fair trial. "The media and publicity hype that has occurred over the last two  weeks is prejudicing my client's right to a fair and just trial," he warned.
