Greece Friday called in ambassadors from its  European Union partners to arbitrate in a dispute with Albania as the leader  of the Greek opposition warned of looming war between the two countries.
Athens claimed Tirana had launched a new campaign of persecution against  its Greek minority.
Conservative opposition leader Miltiade Evert said war was possible.
The Greek minority in Albania, estimated at 400,000 by Athens and 60,000  by Tirana, lives in a poverty-stricken area in southern Albania which Greek  ultra-nationalists want to annex.
The Greek foreign ministry on Friday called in the 11 EU ambassadors to  Greece to appeal for help in arbitrating the dispute and said Tirana was  following a policy of terrorising the Greek minority in order to force them  into exile.
"Greece wants the dispute to be taken up by the European Union," one EU  ambassador said.
Another European diplomat said "the climate between Greece and its other  neighbours, Macedonia and Turkey has done nothing but worsen for several  months."
Athens in mid-May blocked an EU aid package of 35 million ecus (40.25  million dollars) destined for Albania, accusing the country of flagrant  violations of human rights.
Three months ago, Athens imposed a trade embargo on Macedonia, a northern  neighbour whom it accuses of harbouring expansionist ambitions. The European  Union condemned the embargo as illegal.
Greek foreign minister Carolos Papoulias spoke to UN Secretary General  Boutros Boutros Ghali over the Albania issue and wrote to his US counterpart  Warren Christopher.
The US State Department spokesman Mike McCurry angered the Greeks earlier  this week, saying the United States had found "no credible proof" showing that  the Albanian government was targetting its Greek minority.
On Thursday, Greece sent Tirana a "firm warning" after reports of a  police operation against the Greek minority in Albania.
"If these human rights violations against the Greek minority continue, a  conflict situation will develop at the diplomatic and political level,"  Papoulias said, after a meeting with the opposition leader Evert.
Evert said Thursday that fighting could break out on the border between  the countries.
Tirana on Thursday denied any repression of the Greek minority. Prosecutor  General Alush Dragoshi said 30 people had been summoned to "testify" in the  course of an enquiry involving members of the Greek minority.
But "testify' does not mean arrest," Dragoshi said.
Tensions were heightened in April by an attack against an Albanian army  post close to the Greek border, blamed by Tirana on members of its Greek  minority population.
Papoulias cited arrests carried out over the attack as the reason for the  cancellation of a planned meeting with his Albanian counterpart Alfred Serreqi  this week. Tirana accused Athens of using the affair for party political  purposes, two weeks ahead of European Union elections.
