Jim Courier, champion here in 1991 and 1992, is  hoping Roland Garros will be the relaunch base for a career that has been in  freefall ever since he lost to Sergi Bruguera in last year's final.
The American red head, who cruised through his first round tie with  France's Jean-Philippe Fleurian 6-1, 6-4, 6-4, says he gets a lift from a  return to the courts where he forged his ability to pummell his opponents into  submission.
"I've been playing well here for the last five years and I'm hoping that  pattern will continue," Courier said. "At this time of year Paris is my home  and I could think of no better place to be."
Courier's reputation as the most feared baseliner in the world has taken a  hammering over the last twelve months.
Beating the 23-year-old on clay would once have created headlines. But   Andrei Medvedev, Alberto Berasategui and Slava Dosedel have all had that  honour this year.
Those defeats, at Nice, Monte Carlo and in the Italian Open have  exacerbated the former world number one's slide down the rankings.
Seeded seventh here -- on the basis of his current ranking -- Courier will  probably have to get past Pete Sampras and Medvedev if he is to make his  fourth straight final. Before then Courier has a second round tie with Stefano  Pescosolido of Italy.
For a born winner, coming second as Courier did so often last year was  hard to bare. His disillusionment, put on show to the world when he read a  book during changeovers at last year's ATP finals in Frankfurt, was all too  clear.
But the black cloud that seemed permanently to be hanging over the  American in the autumn has lifted in the Paris spring.
Asked if he had brought any books with him, he joked: "Not here but I'll  be taking a library with me to Frankfurt so everyone can have a good time  analysing my current state of mind."
All the signs are that a more-mature Courier is beginning to come terms  with his defeats, although he refuses to accept that his rivals may have  worked out how to play him.
"At Nice, Monte Carlo and Rome, I didn't play badly. They rose to the  occasion.
"I've just been doing a little bit less. If I want to win more I just have  to start playing a bit better.
"But whether I do or not the world is not going to stop."
Realising that might just be the key to a Courier revival.
