A US veterans group arrived in Hanoi Tuesday to hand  over war souvenirs taken home by American troops that could help Vietnam  uncover the fate of its 300,000 people still listed as missing in action  (MIA).
Veteran's Initiative, a programme organised by the Vietnam Veterans of  America (VVA), appealed for people to hunt in their attics for any mementos  that could help Vietnam in its own MIA search.
The group has come to Hanoi to return identity cards, letters, photographs  and maps US troops made of burial grounds for Vietnamese killed during the  conflict, VVA president Jim Brazee said.
Documents describing the fate of as many as 1,800 Vietnamese MIAs will be  handed over at a ceremony in the Ministry of Defence on Wednesday. Photos and  maps could help pinpoint the remains of 130 Vietnamese, a statement from the  group said.
"We want to initiate a veteran to veteran exchange in the hope that  Vietnamese veterans may hand over some information on American MIAs," he said.
The US Veterans Iniative held meetings Tuesday with Vietnamese officials  involved in the hunt for the 2,234 American personnel listed as MIA from the  conflict in Indochina and with officials concerned with the aftermath of the  use of chemical defoliants such as Agent Orange.
Brazee appealed for a greater sharing of scientific data at a meeting with  a Vietnamese committee proving the consequences of the dioxin poison sprayed  over vast swathes of the country to deprive the Vietnamese of jungle cover.
"The saddest thing about this is that the affects of dioxin are  transmitted from one generation to another," a Vietnamese doctor told the  veteran's delegation.
Birth defects among the children of soldiers exposed to Agent Orange has  been a major concern among US veterans, who have frequently accused the US  government of withholding information on the toxin.
"We need to be vigilant to ensure that chemicals of this nature are never  used again," Brazee said.
The delegation was also to meet the US forces stationed here to carry out  joint searches with Vietnamese authorities for MIAs, many of whom were killed  in air crashes over Vietnam.
So far the MIA Joint Task Force has returned 606 sets of remains to the  United States of which 285 have been positively identified, according to US  officials.
US officials have described Vietnamese cooperation in the hunt as  "excellent" but some veterans groups have remained suspicious that Hanoi may  still be withholding evidence.
Washington lifted its trade embargo against Vietnam in February, citing  progress in the search for MIAs but veterans have expressed fears that the  move could weaken Hanoi's resolve to help in the hunt for MIAs and prisoners  of war, a point denied by US MIA officials.
No evidence has surfaced that US prisoners remain in Vietnam despite many  searches by US military teams. Search efforts now concentrate on around 70  "priority cases" where remains are likely to be recovered.
The delegation is to spend two days in Hanoi before travelling to the  central city of Danang and Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon.
