Palestinian police chief General Nasr  Yussef warned Thursday that Israeli settlers could no longer carry weapons  into the synagogue in the self-rule enclave of Jericho.
"We will no longer allow settlers to enter the synagogue with guns because  Palestinians are responsible for security in the sector," Yussef said.
A total of 667 Palestinian policemen have arrived in Jericho and another  2,363 have entered the Gaza Strip in the last 10 days, the Israeli army said.
The general noted that the May 4 agreement to implement autonomy did not  mention arms being taken into the Jewish house of prayer in Jericho.
Yussef spoke to journalists after raising the issue in a meeting in the  West Bank town with senior Israeli army officers in the framework of the joint  liaison committee for autonomy.
Israel central regional commander General Ilan Biran attended the meeting,  but a military spokesman said the army was "considering its response."
"Arrangements should be made to avoid clashes at the Shalom al Israel  synagogue," said Jericho police spokesman Mohammad Shaker.
Settlers on Wednesday accused the new police of desecrating the synagogue,  by going inside, taking in food and damaging religious items.
Shaker described the incident as a "mistake which the settlers blew out of  proportion". But those involved would be questioned and appropriate measures  taken, he said.
About 20 settlers again took guns into the synagogue during prayers on  Thursday, under the watchful eyes of six Palestinian policemen.
The settlers' spokesman, Yehuda Ernst, demanded that the army set up a  guard post at the building and that the Palestinians be kept out.
Israeli and Palestinian officers inspected the synagogue and its surrounds  together on Thursday.
Meanwhile, the general secretary of the Jordan valley settlements, David  Levy, filed a complaint with the Israeli security froces after what he called  "a series of thefts and acts of vandalism" in Jewish colonies near Jericho.
He also alleged the Palestinian police were patrolling outside their  enclave.
The Israeli army announced Thursday that non-Palestinian civilians could  cross Jericho in convoys of at least five vehicles, after filling out an entry  form. However Israeli buses still have to use a military track around the  enclave.
Israelis were last week banned Jericho which became autonomous on Friday  when Jewish forces pulled out.
