Police conducting Australia's biggest murder hunt  were Sunday questioning a 50-year-old man in connection with the serial  killing of seven backpackers, five of them foreign tourists.
A 50-year-old truck driver was detained in a Sydney suburb after a dawn  swoop on nine homes by hundreds of officers.
The hunt started after the bodies of three Germans and two Britons and two  Australians were found in a remote forest south of here between September 1992  and November 1993.
The truck driver was questioned at his home in the southwestern suburb of  Eagle Vale and taken to nearby Campbelltown police station where he was held  in custody "to assist with inquiries", a police spokesman told AFP.
"The house was searched," he said.
A number of other people were being questioned in connection with the  murder inquiry but "we have only one person in custody," the spokesman added.
Some unidentified items were taken away from the house, radio reports said.
A special group of 40 detectives from Task Force Air -- set up to probe  the murders -- was continuing its investigations," he said.
The seven bodies were found in shallow graves in the dense Belanglo state  forest near Bowral, 120 kilometres (75 miles) south of here.
They were hidden under branches and leaves in four separate sites close to  each other. All the victims had been shot or stabbed and detectives indicated  in November that a US-made .22 calibre Ruger rifle could have been used in the  killings.
The discovery of the bodies of Britons Caroline Clark and Joanne Walters,  both 22, in September 1992 launched the backpacker serial murder mystery.
The two had struck up a friendship in Sydney and were looking for casual  farm work in the area.
They were last seen on April 21 1992 getting into a van near Sydney and  then five-days later camping with a man close to the Belanglo forest.
In October 1993, the remains of teenage Australian backpackers James  Gibson and Deborah Everist were found near the grave of the two Britons. They  disappeared while on a hitch-hiking holiday in late December 1989.
Cadaver-sniffing dogs were used in the mounting investigation, and the  remains of 20-year-old German Simone Schmidl were found on November 1, 1993,  more than two years after she had vanished while hitchiking to Melbourne to  team up with her mother.
On November 4, search teams located the bodies of Gabor Neugebauer and his  German girlfriend, Anja Habschied. They had been last seen on December 26   1991 as they were about to leave for Darwin on their way to Indonesia.
While in Sydney, Neugebauer and Habschied had stayed in the same hostel as  Clark and Walters.
Authories have offered a reward of 500,000 Australian dollars (350,000  U.S.) for information leading to the arrest of the killer.
Police said a four-wheel drive vehicle was probably used to reach isolated  spots where the bodies were found, which had macabre-sounding names such as  Executioner's Gap, Sick Man and Kelly's Drop.
The killer seemed to have a detailed knowledge of the forest park which is  close to Bowral, a fovourite tourist destination famed for tulips and as being  the town in which cricketing legend Sir Don Bradman grew up.
In Febraury, a memorial service attended by the families and friends of  some of the victims was held in the forest.
