The three-time defending champion  Chicago Bulls pulled themselves together to post a 95-83 victory over New York  Sunday, evening their best-of-seven series in the National Basketball  Association playoffs.
Scottie Pippen, who sparked a storm of controversy when he refused to play  in the crucial closing seconds of Friday's game, which the Bulls won on a  buzzer-beating shot from Croatian Toni Kukoc, said the team had put that  episode behind them.
"I apoligized to the team and to Phil Jackson," said Pippen, who scored 25  points and led a third-quarter surge by the Bulls. "I don't think I have to  apologize to anyone else."
Game five will be played Wednesday at Madison Square Garden in New York,  then the series moves back to Chicago for game six.
New York suffered from the absence of starting guard Derek Harper, who was  suspended for two games for his part in a bench clearing fight on Friday.
Without their best ball handler, New York committed 15 turnovers leading  to 17 Chicago points in the first half.
Pippen scored Chicago's first points of the game. In the third quarter he  deflected two Knicks passes to set up two breakaway baskets for Chicago.  Horace Grant added 18 points for Chicago, and Patrick Ewing led the Knicks  with 18.
In the other Eastern Conference game, Indiana beat top-seeded Atlanta  102-86 for a 3-1 lead.
The Pacers, who had never won an NBA playoff series before, set a team  playoff record with 11 three-point shots, including four by Reggie Miller.
The Pacers can reach the playoff semi-finals with a victory in game five  in Atlanta.
In the Western Conference, the battle of the road warriors continued as  Houston won their second straight game at Phoenix to level the series 2-2.
The Rockets had lost the opening two games at home, blowing big leads both  times.
"They are not chokers ... they have done is just amazing," coach Rudy  Tomjanovich said after his team beat Phoenix 107-96.
Hakeem Olajuwon and Otis Thorpe dominated as the Rockets held Charles  Barkley to 19 points, compared to his playoffs average of 30.).
"In this business you go from the penthouse to the outhouse pretty  quickly, and I guess you could say I'm definitely in the outhouse," Barkley  said.
bb94
