Samarkand, one of the brightest  jewels of Moslem architecture, is slowly crumbling, condemned by the methods  of its builders, unsuitable restoration techniques and a lack of funds to  ensure its permanent survival.
Grass is growing on the celebrated blue domes at this crossroads of the  old Silk Road, and cracks have appeared in the walls of the Tila Kari, one of  the finest of the Koranic schools and mosques that make up the complex known  as the Registan.
Some of the blame can be laid on the Emperor Tamerlane himself, who died  in 1405 and whose mausoleum is one of the oldest monuments in the city.
"At that time a sovereign did not want his achievements to outlast him,"  said Claude Rapin, a Swiss archaeologist and an expert on ancient Samarkand.
For this reason, he explained, the buildings were constructed in brick,  instead of stone, and the joints in the masonry were filled in with clay, and  not a more durable material.
For Rupin, the monuments of Samarkand require complete renewal every 10  years, or in other words an unending restoration process.
But the restoration works carried out under the Soviet rule of Uzbekistan  did more harm than good, as a recent report of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) stressed.
A basic principle of conservation is to avoid the use of materials other  than those employed originally, the report noted. But the ceilings of the  mausoleum were patched up with papier-mache, ancient walls were buttressed  with reinforced concrete and upper floors were rebuilt with concrete instead  of brick, putting an intolerable strain on foundations.
In addition, local irrigation systems pumping out subterranean water  rendered the earth looser, endangering the stability of walls and causing  rising damp.
The result is evident from the grass growing from the summets of the domes  and minarets of the university Tamerlane's grandson Ulog Deg, a noted  astronomer, built in the heart of the Registan between 1417 and 1420.
This building, and Ulog Deg's observatory, are the priorities for repair  work to be carried out by the Uzbekistan authorities this year, the 600th  anniversary of the sage's birth.
But the Samarkand local government announced last week that the only funds  it could come up with were 1.5 billion som-coupons, the equivalent of 50,000  dollars.
