Talks on forming a coalition government in Malawi  after the country's first democratic elections have collapsed, a senior  politician said in an interview published Thursday.
The talks were held between the victorious United Democratic Front (UDF)  and the Alliance for Democracy (AFORD), AFORD's second vice president Peter  Kaleso told the Daily Times newspaper that the UDF had failed to meet his  party's demands.
AFORD, which won all 33 parliamentary seats in Malawi's northern region  during last week's general elections, sought a coalition with the UDF, which  won 84 seats of the total 177.
The Malawi Congress Party (MCP) of defeated president Hastings Kamuzu  Banda won 55 seats, but the UDF said it would not form a coalition with  members of the former regime.
President Bakili Muluzi Tuesday named a 20-member cabinet that excluded  AFORD as negotiations continued.
Kaleso said AFORD had demanded that the party leader, trade unionist  Chakufwa Chihana, be appointed executive president (second vice president)  and, in addition, be in charge of either the foreign or home affairs ministry.
Furthermore, AFORD wanted seven ministerial portfolios, including justice,  works and supplies and agriculture.
AFORD also wanted a 43 percent quota of deputy ministers, diplomatic and  parastatal staff.
"We made these conditions because we were after bridging the regional  divisions created after the elections and minimising further cultural  polarisation of the country," Kaleso was quoted as saying.
He said AFORD was not interested in positions but "the security of the  government that the people have chosen and (which) is threatened by prevalent  regional divisions."
On Tuesday Muluzi said he had no problems appointing anyone from AFORD.
He left three vacant ministerial posts -- forestry and natural resources,  community services and social services, and physical planning and surveys --  saying he had not yet found candidates to fill the positions.
Observers said Muluzi could be courting trouble if he left AFORD to go  into opposition with the MCP, as the UDF is short by five seats of an overall  majority.
"A combination of AFORD and MCP in the opposition could be deadly for UDF"  said a political analyst.
