Both the former communists in Hungary's  Socialist Party (MSZP) and the runner-up liberal Alliance of Free Democrats  (SZDSZ) promise "blood, sweat and tears" until the end of next year.
That will involve a drop in real wages of at least five percent, a 15-25  percent devaluation of the forint, and an increase in the current inflation  rate of 23.4 percent, they say.
The also predict that Hungary will go bankrupt soon unless the economy is  transformed and a social pact introduced to keep wage demands down.
The socialists won an absolute majority in parliament in the second round  of voting Sunday, with 209 of the 386 seats, ousting a conservative coalition.  The liberals, who came in second with 70 seats, are expected to join the  socialists in a coalition.
Politicians of both parties predict continuing steady economic decline  bottoming out at the end of 1995 as they move to modernise the economy and cut  state spending.
"Society has scythed down extreme forces which were content to expect  miracles and pledged extreme economic growth," said MSZP's main economic  expert Laszlo Bekesi, one-time finance minister and now a potential candidate  for premiership.
The two parties offered broadly similar economic proposals, but the  socialists first want to make an "all-round inventory" to uncover hidden state  obligations, including payment guarantees for foreign investors, a bank and  debtor consolidation scheme, and politically motivated state compensation  offered for property confiscated during the communist years.
The new government's first task will be to halt or at least brake the  slump in specific sectors and then prepare, if possible, to stabilise the  economy next year, Bekesi said.
The socialists want a new "social pact" between the government, workers,  employers and social organisations to avoid new wage claims in the second half  of the year.
To smoothe the introduction of such a pact, the MSZP put the head of the  most powerful trade union organisation in the second spot on its voting list  and nominated other union candidates to parliament, a move which infuriated  political opponents.
But without the pact, Hungary would face insolvency by the end of 1995,  Bekesi argued.
He warned that the government, unions and employers would have to exercise  self-restraint to avoid a collapse.
The two parties are promising to speed up development of the  infrastructure, to develop human resources, and to provide strong and  concentrated central encouragement to boost investment.
To bring unemployment down below 10 percent, the socialists want a new  privatisation strategy with priority given to creating and maintaining jobs  rather than increasing incomes, while the SZDSZ would be content to pursue a  "pro-enterprise" policy which they claim would automatically create jobs.
Both the MSZP and the SZDSZ claim that the future cabinet's sphere of  movement in issues like the privatisation of state assets, banking, the tax  system, agriculture and compensation will be heavily restricted by often  belated or wrong cabinet decisions during the four years of centre-right rule.
"We shall be obliged to follow," SZDSZ head Gabor Kuncze said.
Both parties pledged to assume existing obligations and continue ongoing  programs such as privatisation and compensation schemes.
Bekesi warned that the latter "lames the capital market, hinders  investment and devalues state property," but said the new cabinet might be  able to create a "buyers' market" for remaining state property.
For the second half of this year, the socialists predict a massive rise in  prices, which, they admit will probably slash into their popularity.
"It doesn't matter if we explain that we have nothing to do with the price  rises: everyone will still blame it on the new government," Bekesi said.
Just as both forces centred their programs on the economy, they also  agreed that that it would be "useful" if the new government were led by an  economic expert.
But Bekesi added that "the future premier has to be extremely tolerant and  must be full of empathy to be able to involve people in solving problems and  make them swallow bitter pills more easily."
Kuncze, 43, an aspirant for the premiership himself and a member of the  economic committee of former Parliament, joked that apart from being an  economic expert, the new premier should be "tall, well-built and should wear a  full moustache" -- a description of himself.
