The PLO's top negotiator Nabil  Shaath admitted Friday he had brought money to the Gaza Strip to keep the new  Palestinian police force afloat.
"I came today to bring money for police, so they can carry out their  duties," he told reporters after slipping unannounced into Gaza overnight.
He would not say how much money or if it was cash.
"It's a present for the feast," laughed Shaath, the most senior member of  the Palestinian diaspora to visit the occupied territories since 1967.
Palestinians in Gaza and the autonomous enclave of Jericho are preparing  to celebrate on Saturday the Moslem feast of sacrifice, or Eid al Adha, under  self-rule for the first time.
After claims that Islamic gunmen had shot dead two Israeli soldiers on  Friday, Shaath said: "There will be a few problems and incidents at the  beginning, but we hope to overcome them with patience and cooperation.
"I am confident that cooperation will lead to real peace in the region."
The Israeli army made no comment on claims by Islamic Jihad.
"Palestine is so beautiful," Shaath added, repeating over and over again  how pleased he was to be in his homeland. But he said he would be staying only  24 hours in Gaza.
Shaath, one of the 18 chosen members of the autonomous Palestinian  Authority for the Gaza Strip and Jericho, said it was the first time he had  been to Gaza for 40 years.
He told AFP upon his arrival that he had come "to see if everything is  going well on the ground" and to look into the "urgent" matter of funding of  the Palestinian police force.
"I was here in February 1964 for a conference of Palestinian students," he  said, adding: "I am very happy to be back."
Shaath, who was accompanied by Zohdi al-Kadra the PLO's "ambassador" in  Cairo, crossed into Gaza from Egypt at Rafah.
He was welcomed there by the Israeli military commander in Gaza General  Doron Almog.
Another 500 police drawn from the ranks of the Palestine Liberation Army  in Yemen arrived Thursday night in the Gaza Strip bringing the total number of  Palestinian policemen there to 3,500.
