One of the rival tribal wings of Liberia's ULIMO  armed faction said Saturday it had gained "total control" of their movement's  disputed headquarters north of the capital Monrovia.
General Roosevelt Johnson, the military commander of the United Liberation  Movement (ULIMO) and chief of the Krahn clan, said his troops had captured the  headquarters at Tubmanburg, 60 kilometers (40 kilometers) north of here, from  the fighters of the Mandingo people after two days of fighting.
His troops had lost "one soldier, with one wounded" he said, but the  Mandingos had suffered "heavy losses" although he did not give an overall toll  or mention civilian casualties.
Mercenaries fighting for ULIMO chief Alhaji Kromah, a Mandingo, had been  taken prisoner.
Informed sources said Kromah was not in the headquarters when the Krahn  fighters attacked.
A Krahn leader accused Kromah last week of bringing in mercenaries from  Ghana and Mali and plotting to turn Liberia into an Islamic state.
Johnson said 250 Krahn fighters took part in the two-day attack on the  ULIMO headquarters.
"We were forced to take Tubmanburg because the Mandingos were killing  civilians and eating their hearts," he said, adding that civilian survivors  would confirm such atrocities.
"We will push Kromah and his mercenaries out of Liberia."
In response to questions Johnson said no peacekeepers from the African  ECOMOG peacekeeping forces had supported his troops. Reports to the contrary  were "irresponsible, imaginative and foolish," he said.
An ECOMOG spokesman in Monrovia told AFP that peacekeepers deployed  outside Tubmanburg since mid-May had at no stage taken part in the fighting.
"As neutral body, there is a little you can do in a situation like that,"  he said. "Do you go between the bullets to separate the fighting groups? You  must study what you can do to separate them peacefully."
A UN World Food Programme (WFP) official said Friday that fighters of the  two tribes had fought fierce battles at Tubmanburg.
The battle began Thursday as the WFP was delivering relief supplies in the  town, held by the Mandingo people.
Clashes between the Mandingos and the Krahns began in early March.
The Krahns accuse their rivals of taking the majority of posts attributed  to ULIMO in transitional institutions formed under a July 1993 peace pact in  the run-up to elections planned for September.
A mediation bid by the United Nations and ECOMOG, which was first deployed  by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in 1990, ended in  failure on May 11 after three days of heated talks.
Three UN experts have been in Liberia since the beginning of the week to  help prepare for the presidential and general elections, theoretically due to  end four years of civil war.
On Thursday, UN special envoy to Liberia Trevor Gordon-Somers said the  United Nations was "worried" that it would not be possible to keep to the  electoral timetable.
"With the Angolan experience, the United Nations will have nothing to do  with elections in Liberia if the country is not free of arms," Gordon-Somers  said, referring to the renewed civil war that broke out in Angola after rebels  lost UN-supervised general elections in September 1992.
ULIMO and the two other main factions in Liberia, the National Patriotic  Front (NPFL) and the Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL), have since March 7 been  supposed to turn over their weapons to ECOMOG and encamp.
But only 3,000 fighters of an estimated 60,000 have done so.
