Forget Fittipaldi, Mansell, Unser  and Andretti.
Racers, mechanics and fans agree the name that matters most in Sunday's  Indianapolis 500 is Mercedes-Benz.
The new Mercedes engine has dominated practice speeds this month, but yet  to prove reliability in race conditions. As drivers prepared for Thursday's  final practice for the race, the engine dominated conversations.
"In my opinion, this is the finest engine ever," defending champion and  front-row qualifier Emerson Fittipaldi said. "It's a new experience. You have  to go through a lot of different procedures to adapt yourself. It's not easy.  It has a different torque and acceleration than a regular engine."
The German automaker's motor was developed in just 25 weeks by Britain's  Ilmor Engineering. An Indy 500 rule allows push-rod engines like the Mercedes  to have more horsepower, even though that is not allowed anywhere else in the  Indy-car series.
No one ever had the desire and resources to build a one-race engine until  now, until Roger Penske. The owner has won nine Indy 500 titles in 26 years  and is favored for another with Mercedes cars driven by Fittipaldi, Canada's  Paul Tracy and pole sitter Al Unser Jnr.
"Knowing we had such companies as Honda, Toyota and Ford going forward,  there would be innovation," Penske said. "Someone had to get there first. It  was a business decision. It was a big risk. We aren't going to be running away  with anything."
Rivals disagree, saying Penske's drivers have not even shown their top  speeds.
"They will just run away with it, I think," said retiring Mario Andretti,  driving in his 29th Indy race.
"I don't think it's good for the series or the 500," owner Rick Galles  said. "It makes two sets of rules. But credit Roger for taking advantage of  the rules."
Drivers pointed to Unser's pole qualifying run, which had a slow first lap  but increased by 3 mph (4.9 km/h) dujring the four-lap run around the 2.5-mile  (4km) oval.
"His first qualifying lap was pretty much of a sandbag," England's Nigel  Mansell said.
"He scares himself he has so much power," Michael Andretti said of Unser.  "He has to sneak up on it a little bit at a time."
The question is will the engine survive 500 miles (800 km) running in  traffic, with wearing shifts and brutal heat. Even though Penske has tested  the engine over such a distance, the answer will not be known until race day.
"I'm sure because it's the first time going 500 miles in race conditions,  it will be tough," Fittipaldi said. "We will have difficulty in traffic on  race day. To keep up front on race day will be critical for us."
"The engine gets credit for durability for getting this far," Penske said.  "We're running for endurance here. We want to see how reliable the engine is  and it showed what it can do. It wouldn't prove anything to come here and see  who has top horsepower."
That's because Penske's engine's do, with estimates as high as 1,100 to  just 800 for typical Indy engines. That also means more fuel, but co-designer  Paul Morgan said that should not be a great factor in the race.
"Durability is as important as performance, but we also want to create  more horsepower than the opposition and to do that, you need fuel," Morgan  said. "In that respect, there is no major advantage."
Ilmor engines have won the past six Indy 500s, and co-designer Mario  Illien has been working all month on ensuring the duability that will allow  Penske's racers to chase another checkered flag.
"There are risks associated with a short time frame for development, but  we will work through race day to develop durability, which is essential for a  new engine at the world's most important race," Illien said.
