US and Japanese negotiators went into a second  day of talks here Friday to try and break a three-month deadlock in bilateral  trade talks.
Both US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor and the Japanese negotiators  were tight-lipped as they entered the USTR building for their third session  since Thursday morning.
Kantor had said Thursday that the talks had got off to a good start, but  would say only "the talks are continuing" as he entered the building Friday.
Japanese vice-minister at the International Trade and Industry Ministry,  Sozaburu Okamatsu, also said simply "we are going on."
The talks, originally scheduled to last only one day, are aimed at  reaching agreement on the ground rules for full resumption of talks in  reducing Japan's 60 billion dollar trade surplus under an accord reached in  July.
The talks collapsed in February in disagreement over how to measure  progress in opening Japan's market.
The US side was insisting on numerical targets which Japan rejected as  leading to managed trade and quotas.
Reports from Tokyo this week suggested the Japanese side might be bringing  proposals for a limited acceptance of such targets.
The principal players have refused to say whether the Japanese did bring  such an offer, but one US trade official said that the Japanese side had  brought detailed proposals which the US side considered worth exploring.
On Thursday the two sides met for three hours in the morning, then broke  for six hours while the US side held discussions, according to a Japanese  official.
They then met again and had dinner together in the evening but with no  sign of a breakthrough.
US officials announced late Thursday that the talks would carry over into  Friday, but a senior official said that they would not be extended beyond that.
This is not the first time the two sides have tried to get the talks back  on track since February.
Kantor held a two-hour meeting with then Japanese foreign minister Tsutomu  Hata in Marrakesh last month, after which the two sides said they would try to  find a "basis of agreement" to resume negotiations before the Group of Seven  summit in Naples in July.
Since the February collapse of the talks, Washington has said it will not  return to the negotiating table until Japan comes up with proposals that would  give a good chance of success.
This week's talks are at Japan's request, but Washington has made it clear  that it is not about to cave in simply to help save the precarious coalition  government now headed by Hata.
The talks came amid news of a worsening of the trade imbalance, with Japan  announcing Friday that its trade surplus with the United States expanded 8.9  percent in April to 4.4 billion dollars.
As the talks began Thursday, the US government released its March trade  figures showing a 25.4 percent boost in the trade deficit with Jaoan to 5.80  billion dollars.
Apart from Okamatsu, the Japanese chief negotiator in the talks is deputy  foreign minister for economic affairs Sakayuki Hayashi.
The US team includes Deputy Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky and  President Bill Clinton's deputy economic policy advisor Bowman Cutter as well  as Kantor.
