Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi pledged here Monday  that his new administration would adhere to Italy's democratic structures,  despite "legitimate concerns" over the presence of neo-fascists in the cabinet.
In a speech to the Senate, the upper house, Berlusconi clarified what he  called "legitimate concerns," notably voiced abroad, over the make-up of his  government, and warned opposition parliamentarians against voting his team out  of office.
"This government is without a shadow of a doubt rooted within the  constitutional charter" which has defined Italy's democratic structures since  1948, he said.
The three-party right-wing coalition which won March general elections and  from which the cabinet has been drawn had "a common and explicit perspective  in favour of civil liberties and the unity of the country."
Berlusconi hit out at criticisms of his fledgling adminstration, citing  notably the leader of the ex-communist Party of the Democratic Left (PDS),  Achille Occhetto.
"To define the government as a government which humiliates Italy is not a  good way to start. It is a gratuitous insult to the honour of the country," he  said.
The media magnate turned politican stressed that "the presence of the  (neo-fascist) National Alliance in the government can not be a pretext to  withhold legitimacy" from the new administration.
He warned opposition parliamentarians against the temptation "to prevent  the country from being governed" and thereby setting in motion "a vicious  circle of non-communication."
Berlusconi must win backing for his government from both parliamentary  houses.
The Senate, where he lacks a majority, is due to hold its vote of  confidence Wednesday.
It has 326 seats, and by Monday afternoon the premier could count on  certain support from only 154 senators, not including speaker Carlo  Scognamiglio, a Berlusconi ally who as head of the house traditionally takes  no part in the vote.
The coalition which won the election comprises Berlusconi's Forza Italia,  the federalist Northern League and the National Alliance of neo-fascist  Gianfranco Fini.
