GATT chief Peter Sutherland all but ruled out  Friday the possibility of China rejoining the world trade body by year's end,  labelling the schedule put forward by Beijing "extremely demanding."
While "encouraged" by three days of talks with senior foreign trade  officials here, Sutherland said China was some way from realising its aim to  be in at the inception of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), which replaces  the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) on January 1.
"It is still going to be extremely difficult, with the best will in the  world, to achieve that timeframe," Sutherland said at a joint press conference  with Vice Foreign Trade Minister Gu Yongjiang.
"The time schedule is extremely demanding," he added.
In a further indication that China's plans may be frustrated, the GATT  secretary general emphasised that there was "no practical difference" in  whether China joined the WTO on "January 1, April 1 or June 1."
"Really, what we should be talking about is the likelihood of a  satisfactory outcome at the end of the day. The end of the day being not too  distant."
He also pointed out that the deadline was even closer than December, as  the negotiating parties would have to reach a substantive protocol agreement  on re-entry by June in order to have any hope of inducting China before  January 1.
China, which was a founding member of GATT but left after the communists  came to power in 1949, has repeatedly made it clear that it attaches great  political significance to readmission before the new year.
Sutherland said he had seen signs of "genuine will and flexibilty" from  the Chinese side during his visit, but added that doubts remained over the  transparency of China's foreign trade regime, especially its policies  governing import quotas, licences and standards.
"I do not wish to minimise the amount of additional discussion that has to  be undertaken," he said.
His remarks contrasted with Gu's assertion that China had already made  enormous efforts to comply with GATT requests for import tariff and non-tariff  reductions as well as increased transparency.
Gu, the chief Chinese negotaiator to the GATT, also accused some countries  of creating "political obstacles" to China's re-entry and making "excessive"  demands.
As China is not yet a developed nation, "it should undertake obligations  (to GATT) commensurate with the status of a developing country," Gu said,  adding that such commitments "must be within the economic affordability of our  country."
At the same time, he said he did not rule out the necessity of further  explanation and clarification of China's foregn trade regime in order to  address the concerns of GATT members.
Sutherland, however, dismissed as "simplistic" the labelling of countries  as either developed or developing.
While recognition will be given to the particular transitional status of  China's economy, "it is the balance of rights and obligations that will  ultimately determine the reality of China's status in the WTO," he said.
Sutherland also took issue with the assertion by Assistant Foreign Trade  Minister Long Yongtu that the United States was using the Sino-US row over the  renewal of China' Most Favoured Nation (MFN) trading status to hamper China's  GATT re-entry.
Long, who also participated in the press conference, said the US  insistence on linking MFN renewal with human rights was "a typical example of  political elements interfering with trade" and was holding up the GATT  negotiations.
But Sutherland appeared to disagree, saying the United States had assured  him that it was constructively and positively engaged in seeking a speedy  resolution to the issue of Chinese re-entry,
"I have absolutely no reason to believe that that represents anything  other than an accurate statement," he said.
