Japan's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) vowed Tuesday  to topple Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata's minority government, but suddenly  found that its expected allies, the Socialists, baulked at the attack.
LDP secretary-general Yoshiro Mori reaffirmed the party's intention of  submitting a no-confidence motion against Hata's cabinet after the passage of  a long-pending state budget.
"It is not a cabinet reflecting the popular will," Mori told a news  conference. "When the budget is passed, the cabinet's duty will be over."
But the Socialists, the second biggest opposition force, gave Hata a  breathing space by refusing to join the LDP in seeking an immediate resolution  to fire a key parliamentary official from the ruling coalition.
The official, Keiwa Okuda, is chairman of the house management committee.  His job is decide whether to accept no-confidence motions and thus gives  Hata's government freedom of maneuver.
The LDP wanted to take over the post to regain control over parliamentary  business. But some Socialists, traditional LDP foes, felt it unjust to fire  Okuda who has made no mistakes in the job.
The conservative LDP, which lost its scandal-tainted 38-year grip on power  last year, and the Social Democratic Party (SDP), as the Socialists are known,  together control 280 seats in the 511-seat lower house.
The LDP secretary-general admitted that his party and the SDP had yet to  agree completely on jointly submitting a no-confidence motion against Hata.  "But both parties share the view that the Hata cabinet has no duty other than  to pass the budget," Mori said.
SDP chairman Tomiichi Murayama said the party would shelve its decision on  whether it will join the resolution against Okuda. "We will take time to study  the matter cautiously," he told reporters.
Hata took office at the head of Japan's first minority government in four  decades on April 28 as the SDP, grouping a wide range of socialists, bolted  the nine-month-old ruling coalition following the creation of a rival voting  bloc.
A financial scandal over Hata's predecessor, Morihiro Hosokawa, combined  with infighting within the coalition over policy differences, has delayed the  passage of the state budget, now six weeks overdue.
It took two weeks for the coalition to choose a successor to Hosokawa, the  head of the conservative Japan New Party, after he stepped down as premier.
Hosokawa still faces a growing call from the opposition to testify in  parliament on a 100-million-yen (950,000-dollar) loan he allegedly received  from a mobster-linked trucking czar when he was an LDP deputy running for a  provincial governership.
Meanwhile, Hata called on LDP chief Yohei Kono and secured his support for  the passage of the budget as the lower house budget committee prepared to  resume debate, party officials said.
But Kono reminded Hata that his government was a "minority government  created under abnormal circumstances," according to the officials.
"We might possibly (...) correct what is abnormal after the budget is  passed," Kono was quoted as telling the premier, threatening a no-confidence  vote.
Hata also met the Socialist chairman separately, seeking his help for the  passage of the budget.
But the premier denied he had sought the SDP's return to the coalition.  "We have yet to take up the matter," he said.
Two key coalition parties, Hosokawa's Japan New Party and the centrist  Democratic Socialist Party, asked Hata on Monday to disband the voting bloc,  Kaishin (Renovation), to lure back the SDP which now has a casting vote in  parliament.
