President Nelson Mandela was to meet Sunday  with Zulu leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi to discuss a row over the furtive  transfer of vast tracts of land to Zulu king Goodwill Zwelithini, the  Johannesburg Sunday Times said.
Officials from both Mandela's and Buthelezi's offices were said Sunday to  be travelling to Cape Town for the first session of the new  democratically-elected parliament on Tuesday and could not immediately be  reached for comment.
Former president and now Deputy President Frederik de Klerk authorised the  transfer of three million hectares (7.5 million acres) of land to a trust held  by Zwelithini on April 25, just two days before South Africans went to the  polls in the country's first all-race election.
The land comprises more than one third of former KwaZulu black homeland,  which was dismantled when a new interim constitution came into effect on April  27.
According to the Sunday Times, the king now controls more land than the  ninth Duke of Buccleugh, listed in the Guiness Book of Records as the biggest  landowner in the world.
The disclosure of the transfer, in the Weekly Mail and Guardian newspaper,   has presented Mandela's fledgling government of national unity with its first  major challenge and is likely to top the agenda when the new multi-party  cabinet meets on Monday.
De Klerk and Buthelezi, who is also newly-appointed Home Affairs Minister,  claim the transfer was legal and was debated openly in the KwaZulu Legislative  Assembly.
But senior officials of Mandela's African National Congress (ANC) say  neither they nor Mandela were informed of the deal, which they claim violates  a moratorium on the disposal of state land.
They also fear the transfer could jeopardise future land reform programmes.
According to the Weekly Mail and Guardian, De Klerk agreed to the deal to  secure the king's and Buthelezi's participation in the historic election,  which swept the ANC into power.
But De Klerk has denied this, claiming he was duty bound to approve the  bill after it was adopted by the KwaZulu assembly.
"There was no question of secrecy," De Klerk told journalists in London  this weekend. "The bill was presented to me for my signature ... and I was  obliged to approve the legislation which had been duly adopted by the KwaZulu  Legislative Assembly."
Dismissing this explanation as "spurious", Sunday Times Editor Ken Owen  said in an editorial that "as the cleverest politician in the country", De  Klerk knew that it was his duty to announce to the public any transaction of  this magnitude.
"That he did not do so is contemptible," Owen said, "but, alas, all too  typical of the wicked regime of (De Klerk's National Party)."
Owen described the land deal as "South Africa's greatest and most  spectacular single act of privatisation, carried out with the cunning and  ruthlessness of a dawn raid."
"It was like taking candy from a baby," he added.
br
