Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin prepared  Wednesday to leave for China for a four-day visit aimed at deepening  commercial and economic ties.
Up to seven "very wide-ranging" accords were set to be signed during the  visit, ITAR-TASS reported, at a time when China is experiencing a period of  record growth. Sino-Russian trade last year totalled 7.68 billion dollars.
Chernomyrdin is scheduled to meet Chinese counterpart Li Peng and Chinese  President Jiang Zemin and will visit Beijing and Shanghai, as well as the  major port of Dalian, formerly Port-Arthur.
Jiang is due to visit Russia in the autumn at the invitation of President  Boris Yeltsin.
Russian Economics Minister Alexander Chokhin arrived in China on Tuesday  for the second session of an inter-governemental commission on economic,  commercial, scientific and technical cooperation.
Russian parliamentary speaker Ivan Rybkin and Foreign Minister Andrei  Kozyrev visited Beijing earlier this year as part of a push by both nations to  cement bilateral ties, a move which began with a visit by Yeltsin in late 1992.
That visit was marked by the signature of a joint declaration setting out  the principles on which to base future relations and also by the signing of 23  documents regarding economic and military cooperation.
The 1992 summit came just three-and-a-half years after the normalisation  of relations between the two countries which resulted from a Beijing meeting  between former Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev and China's senior leader  Deng Xiaoping. That meeting precipitated a thaw in relations after a  three-decade standoff.
Chernomyrdin was also due to deal with consular issues on entry  formalities for Chinese nationals to Russia. More than 750,000 Chinese visited  Russia last year according to official figures.
Kozyrev last January reportedly remarked that the presence of Chinese in  Russia was becoming "a serious problem." The Moscow foreign ministry came out  in favour of imposing visa requirements on all Chinese not in possession of  diplomatic passports, with the regulation to apply to businessmen as well as  tourists.
Russia also wants to crack down on the leaders of Chinese gangs operating  on the Russian side of the border. Gang leaders behind the extortion of  Trans-Siberian railway passengers were recently arrested in Moscow by Russian  counter-espionage officials following investigations by Interpol and the  Chinese police.
The heads of both governments were expected to come out against holding  any discussion on their common border, which is 4,400 kilometres long and was  the subject of an historic accord in March 1991.
The region around the Amur river, which separates the two countries, has  been a contentious territorial issue between them for a century and provoked  bloody clashes in 1969.
