Dan Rostenkowski, a Democratic power broker and  point man for President Bill Clinton's health care reform, was indicted  Tuesday on 17 counts of corruption.
A federal grand jury handed down the indictment against the chairman of  the powerful House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee after  Rostenkowski spurned a plea bargain.
"Congressman Rostenkowski engaged in a pattern of corrupt activity for  more than 20 years and embezzled hundreds of thousands of dollars," said US  Attorney Eric Holder, who said the Chicago congressman sought to enrich  himself, his family and his friends.
The charges included mail fraud, wire fraud, embezzelement and conspiracy.
Rostenkowski faced several years in prison if convicted on all charges,  Holder said.
Rostenkowski, 66, was accused of putting people on the congressional  payroll who did little or no work; improperly exchanging stamps for money from  the House Post Office; charging Congress for gifts given to friends; buying  vehicles with government and campaign funds; and instructing a witness to  withold evidence.
Vowing to "fight to regain my reputation in court," Rostenkowski Monday  rejected a plea bargain that would have meant pleading guilty to a felony,  resigning from Congress and serving a short prison sentence.
The showdown set the stage for a nasty legal battle as Clinton struggles  to win passage in the House of Representatives of his health care reform  program, the centerpiece of his administration.
With the administration's success or failure riding largely on reform of  the health care system, the loss of its most influential champion in Congress  was a major blow for the president.
Rostenkowski said he was temporarily leaving his chairmanship of the House  Ways and Means Committee, but would remain in Congress and run for a 19th term  in November.
Democratic leaders said they expected him to continue playing a  behind-the-scenes role on health care and the White House indicated they are  continuing to rely on him despite his legal problems.
"He's been an important player on health care," said White House press  secretary Dee Dee Myers. "Certainly, the members (of Congress) have indictated  they'll continue to work with him."
"I would like people to keep in mind that he is innocent until proven  guilty," she added.
Holder had given Rostenkowski until Tuesday to accept a plea bargain.
"I am confident that I will be vindicated and I look forward to the return  of the gavel," said Rostenkowski, referring to his committee chairmanship.
The House Ways and Means Committee controls the purse strings of  government and decides committee assignments, giving its members unparalleled  political clout.
Sam Gibbons, a low-key Florida Democrat whose expertise is in  international trade rather than health care, was positioned to replace  Rostenkowski as chairman of the committee.
"I know my committee colleagues can handle today's challenging agenda  regardless of who is in the chair and I expect to help," Rostenkowski said.
Other committee members agreed Rostenkowski could be counted on to remain  a force on the committee.
"I think the charman is going to maintain a behind-the-scenes control of  this thing," said Representative Rick Santorum, a Republican from  Pennsylvania, in an ABC television interview.
Charles Rangel, a New York Democrat and committee member, acknowledged  however it would take longer without Rostenkowski in the chairmanship and  other observers note that a legal battle will consume time and energy.
