England's embattled rugby union  tourists -- beaten three times in four starts -- face a South African  second-string line-up at the De Beers stadium here Tuesday.
England's manager Jack Rowell, who has scored as many points for diplomacy  off the field on this tour than his players have managed on it, refers to  Tuesday's team as "our development side."
Even so, severalo of the players could force their way into contention for  the first Test against the Springboks at Pretoria's Loftus Versfeld on   Saturday.
Chief among them is tearaway back rower Steve Ojomoh, the Nigerian-born  dynamo who has shown a level of pace and fire that has for the most part been  lacking in the England teams on tour.
But, inevitably, injuries have taken their toll.
The tourists have already called up Jonathan Callard to replace the  injured David Pears at fullback and Simon Shaw for Martin Johnson at lock.
Callard's late inclusion could well work in his favour. With Paul Hull  limping after England's 24-14 defeat by Transvaal last Saturday, a good  performance against South Africa A could see him back in the England No 15  jersey.
Rowell wants to see England adopt a more open pattern of play than in the  losses to Orange Free State, Natal and Transvaal and a lacklustre 26-24 win  over second division Western Transvaal in Potchefstroom.
"The more open the game, the more options you have," said Rowell.
The South Africa A lineup will include just three capped players --  captain and No 8 Adriaan Richter, lock Kobus Wiese and flyhalf Joel Stransky.
In addition, full back Chris Dirks was a member of the Springbok squad  that toured Argentina earlier this year.
South Africa A: Chris Dirks, Cabous van der Westhuizen, Christiaan  Scholtz, Japie Mulder, Simon Berridge, Joel Stransky, Johan Roux, Gary Pagel,  James Dalton, Johan le Roux, Andre Venter, Kobus Wiese, Krynauw Otto, Fritz  van Heerden, Adriaan Richter (captain).
England: Jonathan Callard, Damian Hopley, Michael Catt, Stuart Potter,  Adedayo Adebayo, Stuart Barnes, Steve Bates, Graham Rowntree, Graham Dawe,  John Mallett, Simon Shaw, Matthew Poole, Lawrence Dellaglio, Steve Ojomoh,  Dean Ryan (captain).
