Palestinian policeman have desecrated the Jewish  synagogue in the newly-autonomous enclave of Jericho, the settlers' spokesman  charged Wednesday, prompting swift Palestinian denials.
However Israeli President Ezer Weizman took up the complaint.
"It's not a good start," he told state radio. "Both sides must be  tolerant. If our Palestinian partners do not understand, it will not work.
"I hope this incident is not a sign of what is to come."
Aharon Domb, spokesman for the settlers' council, said: "Palestinian  policemen entered the synagogue.
"They ripped off the holy mezuzah's from the doorframes, tore the curtain  from the holy ark and brought in food," he said. The mezuzah is a tiny  parchment bearing words from the Bible, set in a case and fixed in doorways.
Domb said Israeli army officers had inspected the synagogue, which has  been guarded by Palestinian police since the West Bank town of Jericho became  autonomous last Friday.
The soldiers had informed senior Palestinian police officers, the  spokesman added.
An army spokesman would not comment on the report.
"There has not been any desecration," said Jericho police spokesman  Mohammad Shaker. "But settlers turned up and hoisted an Israeli flag. Two  Israeli officers are also there trying to calm things down."
An Israeli radio correspondent on the spot reported that there were  "traces" of desecration, but it was unclear how they were caused.
Saeb Erakat, a member of the new Palestinian authority, who lives in  Jericho, also visited the synagogue and denied it had been profaned.
Far-right wing MP Hanan Porat of the National Religious Party announced  that he would lead of group of settlers to the synagogue on Wednesday to  protest and stay over to prevent further "vandalism".
About 30 armed settlers were escorted by soldiers to the building on the  edge of the town on Sunday to pray. Palestinian police stood guard outside.
The synagogue boasts 5th-6th century mosaics but the structure is modern  and has been recently renovated with money from an anonymous American  benefactor.
