China hopes that talks here this week with Russia  will help diversify bilateral trade and lead to strengthened management of  existing border exchanges between the two neighbours, reports said on Monday.
Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Shokhin and Chinese Vice Premier  Li Lanqing, are to preside over the three-day second session of the  Sino-Russian Joint Commission on Economic, Trade and Technical Cooperation,  which begins here Tuesday, the China Daily said.
The talks, which follow a trip here earlier this month by a Russian  parlimentary delegation, precede Russian Prime Minister Viktor Charnomyrdin's  visit to China beginning on Thursday.
Trade between the two countries, which were reconciled officially in 1989  after a rift of nearly three decades, last year reached 7.7 billion dollars,  up by 31 percent from the figure for the previous year, with border trade  accounting for 2.5 billion dollars.
Foreign trade ministry official Geng Xuncai said that the delegations  would look at possible cooperation in agriculture, technology and other  fields, as well as discussing laws and regulations needed to protect bilateral  trade.
Geng said greater efforts should also be made to cooperate in high-tech  areas such as aerospace, aeronautics, chemicals, pharmaceuticals and  machinery.
"We hope the two nations will maintain friendly and stable cooperation,"  the China Daily quoted him as saying, but added that he did not elaborate on  his comment that "the current difficulties in bilateral relations are only  temporary."
Pointing to one possible source of friction, Geng said China was pushing  for two-way trade to be carried out mainly in cash exchanges, noting that  between 65 and 70 percent was now in barter.
Efforts to shift from barter to cash exchanges are thought to be one of  the reasons for a dramatic drop in border trade volume in the first quarter of  the year. The drop is also the result of newly imposed Russian visa  restrictions to stem the flood of Chinese crossing into the country each day.
Some 2.5 million people crossed the border in both directions in 1993.
Geng said communications were also an obstacle to trade, calling on the  two sides to develop sea and road transport routes.
