The search for an opposition Labour Party leader to  replace John Smith promises to be long and complex, due in part to democratic  reforms pushed through by Smith himself last year, observers said Friday.
Smith, whose political acumen and common touch had positioned him as the  man most likely to become Britain's first Labour prime minister in 15 years,  died suddenly of a heart attack Thursday at 55.
By a swift stroke of destiny, the party that seemed on the brink of  sweeping away a faltering Conservative Party suddenly found itself with a  jagged leadership void.
Smith's funeral was expected to be held in his native Scotland next week.
His deputy, Margaret Beckett, 51, who took over the interim reins, was  only one of several lining up to succeed the dynamic and acerbic-tongued  Smith, being termed by many Friday as "the best prime minister Britain never  had."
Two top contenders emerging were Labour shadow home secretary Tony Blair,  41, and shadow chancellor Gordon Brown, 43, both from the party's right, both  described as "modernisers," both Smith's loyal lieutenants.
Shadow industry spokesman Robin Cook, 48, was also being mentioned, as was  transport spokesman John Prescott, 55, the tough-talking former merchant  seaman credited with helping Smith ram through his controversial "one  member-one vote" reforms at the party conference last year.
Those reforms, which effectively wrested control of the party from the  powerful unions that created it as their mouthpiece early in the century, were  Smith's democratic legacy in broadening the base for choosing party leadership.
They also promised to extend and complicate the selection process.
Under the old block voting system, union officials would vote on their  members' behalf, automatically controlling 40 percent of the total vote, with  30 percent going to party members and 30 percent to party MPs.
Under Smith's reforms, votes in Labour's new electoral college will now be  apportioned three ways: one-third to the party's 264 MPs and 45 Euro-MPs,  one-third to the party's 250,000 dues-paying members, and one-third to some  4.5 million union members each of whom is now entitled to a secret ballot.
Observers said voting under the new system could take up to six weeks, and  that party's National Executive Committee (NEC) was unlikely even to begin the  process until after next month's European Parliament elections.
Candidates to succeed Smith would need the support of at least 12.5  percent of the Parliamentary Labour Party for their names to go on the ballot.
The NEC will also decide whether to hold a special conference to announce  the result, as happened in July 1992 when Smith was elected to replace Neil  Kinnock.
It could decide not to unveil them until the annual Labour Party  conference in Blackpool in October, observers said.
That prospect was said to be worrying several Labour leaders anxious for  the succession to be completed as quickly as possible.
They see a leadership void extended through the summer as threatening to  neutralize the momentum the party gathered in last week's local council  elections, which gave the governing Tories their worst defeat ever.
In the most recent opinion polls before Smith's death, Labour enjoyed a  commanding 50 percent lead among those asked who they would vote for in a  general election, against less than 30 percent for the Conservatives.
