The United States has contacted three Arab countries  in an effort to help broker a ceasefire between rival leaders in the Yemen  civil war, an Egyptian diplomat said Wednesday.
Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) were contacted  because they "are the three Arab countries best placed" to ensure "an indirect  dialogue between the northen and southern Yemenis," the diplomat said.
The three have already urged the warring sides to lay down arms and start  talks to end the civil war which broke out on May 5.
The aim of the US-led mediation was to "preserve Yemen's unity without  resorting to force," the diplomat added.
He hinted that northern troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh would  be called upon to accept a ceasefire in exchange for the south giving up its  unilateral declaration of independence.
"There is still a chance of ending the fighting in Yemen," he said.
US charge d'affairs Edmund Hull told reporters following talks with  Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Mussa, for the second time within 24 hours, that  Egypt and the United States were working "to obtain a ceasefire in Yemen and  facilitate the opening of talks between the two protaganists."
A US diplomatic source said Mussa and Hull discussed "practical steps to  end the fighting and encourage political dialogue" as the war was about to  enter its fourth week.
He said the United States was "very concerned by the situation in Yemen."
Southern leader Ali Salem al-Baid on Saturday proclaimed a new independent  state called the Yemeni Democratic Republic to end a four-year troubled union  between the former conservative, tribal North and the Marxist South.
The south's declaration of independence has been denounced by Washington,  while Egypt has stressed that Yemen's unity cannot be maintained by force.
The new republic has not been recognised by any country so far, apart from  the breakaway region of Somaliland in Africa.
But the UAE implictly recognised it by referring to Baid as "the  president."
