Zambian President Fredrick Chiluba's fourth son  shot and wounded a woman he picked up on the streets of Lusaka over the  weekend, police said Tuesday.
Police spokesman, Peter Chingaipe, told reporters Tuesday that 22-year-old  Castro Chiluba was later picked up and questioned by police, but was released  soon after an investigation was started.
"Police procedure has been followed. We picked up the boy, questioned him  and a docket has been opened. We are still investigating," said Chingaipe.
Chiluba's victim, 21-year-old Maureen Tembo, who was shot in the knee,  told the independent bi-weekly Post newspaper from her hospital bed that the  president's son had offered to give her an undisclosed amount of money if she  kept quiet.
The Post said Castro shot the girl at a friend's house where "the two were  entertaining her" after picking her by the roadside on Saturday night.
She told the Post that after shooting her, Castro dragged her into a  bathroom were he attempted to extract the bullet using a knife.
"He took a knife and tried to remove the bullet and extend the wound so  that I tell people that I was knifed by bandits," said Maureen, whom the Post  described as a call girl.
Castro is reported to have driven the girl to the hospital after failing  to extract the bullet and registered that he had found her on the roadside  after being shot by unknown people.
Only two weeks ago, Castro beat up a married woman after she refused to  have an intimate affair with him. Earlier this year he assaulted his own  bodyguard who was restraining him from damaging music equipment at one of  Lusaka's night spots.
Last month local press reported that Castro had refused to pay a hotel  bill running into millions of the local kwacha which he incurred at a hotel in  the southern town of Livingstone "where he was entertaining friends".
One of former president Kenneth Kaunda's sons, escaped the hangman's noose  two years ago after the Supreme Court acquitted him of murdering a 22-year-old  woman who was shot at close range in a group of colleagues returning from a  night party.
The High Court had convicted Kambarage Kaunda and sentenced him to death  and the Supreme Court's decision led to widespread demonstrations by  supporters of President Chiluba (who had just assumed office).
