Vietnam is ready to start negotiations on the fate  of some 40,000 of its citizens living illegally in Germany but will only allow  a "humanitarian" solution to the problem, a top official said Friday.
Do Quoc Sam, chairman of the State Planning Committee said the return of  the illegal residents should be carried out in a "humanitarian and voluntary"  manner.
Speaking at a joint press conference with visiting German Minister for  Cooperation and Development Carl-Dieter Spranger, Sam said the two sides hoped  to start talks on the issue in June.
A spokesman for Spranger's ministry said before the visit that they were  expecting the talks to be "difficult" as Vietnam was refusing to take back its  citizens, a point denied by Sam, who insisted they should be encouraged to  return voluntarily in the same manner as Asian boat people.
Spranger, who arrived here Thursday on the first leg of an Asian tour,  visited two businesses run by returnees from Germany with aid from the  government in Bonn.
The minister is here to assess the effectiveness of German aid to Vietnam,  which amounted to 160 million marks (97.5 million dollars) between 1990 and  1993 as Bonn took over projects formerly run by East Germans.
Vietnam wants Germany to provide greater amounts of aid to help the  returnees, many of whom were sent as guest workers to the former East Germany  under a bilateral agreement between the two communist countries.
A recent report here said only 10 percent of the 50,000 workers who have  returned since 1990 have found work under schemes set up to help them  reintegrate.
Spranger said the "distance between the two countries" on the issue of  debts run up with the former East Germany was not great and that a resolution  of the issue could be expected soon. He did not give a figure for the debt.
He said Germany would work to increase investment here, which stands at  only 5.7 million dollars so far, one of the lowest amounts among European  Union members but added that most firms were more interested in moving into  Eastern Europe.
The minister is to visit the central cities of Hue and Danang before  continuing his Asian tour in Malaysia and Indonesia.
