Chinese filmmaker Yin Li, barred from  leaving his country to attend the premiere of his film here, sent a defiant  personal message to the Cannes Film Festival Friday.
"Even though I cannot be here and sit with you face to face today, I  believe that such a day will not be too far away," he said, in a direct  telephone link attended by small group of journalists.
Speaking via an interpreter, he said: "Deng Xiao Ping and other communist  leaders have repeatedly said, the door to China has opened, and there's no  turning back.
"Film is a window for cultural exchange between China and the world, and  is a necessary thing and will continue, and Chinese filmmakers will not give  up their work despite the fact that there might be obstacles in the way."
News that Yin and some of his cast had been refused exit visas to travel  to the premiere of "The Story of Xinghua" was released Thursday ahead of the  film's screening Friday in the "Un Certain Regard" section of the festival.
The refusal was blamed by the film's representatives here, and by the  director himself in China, on Chinese annoyance over another Chinese film,  Zhang Yimou's "To Live," which is in competition here and widely tipped as a  potential winner of the top Golden Palm award.
On Tuesday Zhang announced in a statement that he was not attending the  festival because his film had not yet been approved for screening in China.
The incidents come as China is facing growing pressure over its human  rights record, notably from the United States, which must decide early next  month whether to renew Beijing's Most Favoured Nation trade status.
"Xinghua" tells the story of Wanglai, a grocer who makes his fortune  selling stones stolen from the Great Wall of China. It ends tragically after a  hunt for a legendary treasure buried under the wall.
Yin is seen as the leader of the so-called "sixth generation" of Chinese  filmmakers, following the fifth generation whose leading exponents include  Zhang and Chen Kaige, whose "Farewell to My Concubine" was joint winner of the  coveted Golden Palm here last year.
Yin, 36, said he would like to have been in Cannes. "As a filmmaker, not  being able to be share the film with the audience and see their reaction is  very regrettable," he said.
But he added that he felt he had achieved his purpose -- the film was  already in Cannes, even if he himself could not be here.
"As Mao has said, art should be a tool to unite the people, to educate the  people, to destroy the enemy ... it should be a powerful weapon," Yin said.
A statement by Zhang was read out by producer Chiu Fusheng at the start of  a press conference ahead of his film's premiere on Tuesday.
"Because my film, "To Live", has still not received its censors' visa in  China, I am unable to come to the Cannes festival. I regret this very much,"  the statement said.
A spokesman for Beyond Films, the Australian company representing  "Xinghua" here, said Thursday that the bar on Yin was directly related to  Beijing's annoyance at Zhang's film.
Yin, in a telephone interview in Beijing earlier Friday, appeared to blame  Zhang for authorities' refusal to grant him the visa to travel to France.
"He's the one who's sick, and I'm the one getting the treatment," he said.
Festival director Gilles Jacob has so far stayed tight-lipped about Yin's  situation, saying only that he is aware of it. In reply to Zhang's absence, he  sent a personal message of appreciation for the filmmaker's work.
