Greece, torchbearers of the Olympic Games, have cast  aside their country's traditional sporting ideals on the run-up to the World  Cup -- for money.
The Greek players are celebrating their first World Cup finals, but  financial gain, as in most other countries, has outweighed their historical  Olympic ethos.
The pure amateurism of Pierre de Coubertin's founding Games in Athens in  1896 has given way to the fast buck in recent Olympics.
And Greek footballers have similar financial aims. Though it is  understandable they are looking after themselves, ancient Greeks might have  winced at their demands.
According to Athens daily newspaper Ta Nea, the players want 12,400  dollars for each win, 6,150 dollars for draws, and 62,000 dollars for reaching  the second phase.
Furthermore, they are claiming another 25 per cent of the revenue their  federation will receive from television rights and FIFA subsidies.
A 1-1 draw in Russia on May 23 was enough to make Greece the first country  to qualify for the World Cup in the United States.
However, with coach Alketas Panagoulias caught between the two stools of  federation and players, friction within the camp may hinder their preparation.
The federation's total income is likely to exceed four million dollars,  and the players may reportedly ask for a bigger slice of the profits at any  time.
However the players have already received just under a million dollars, to  be shared out however Panagoulias sees fit.
Yet should they emerge from their group with Argentina, Nigeria, and  Bulgaria, Greek fans back home, and thousands of Greek-American supporters,  would argue they were worth every drachma.
Greek national television will show every World Cup match, most live, in  102 hours of coverage.
Greek enthusiasm for the pioneering footballers will be intense, but the  players must overcome crippling inexperience if they are to emerge from their  group.
There are no world class players in the squad, and few have been asked to  play abroad.
