West European, Russian and US foreign ministers met  in Geneva Friday in a fresh effort to agree a workable peace plan for  Bosnia-Hercegovina and end the civil war in the former Yugoslav republic.
The ministers of Belgium, Britain, France, Germany, Greece, Russia and the  United States, together with a top official of the European Union, began their  talks shortly after 1:00 p.m. (1100 GMT) at the US embassy.
After two years of destruction and division leaving tens of thousands of  people dead, wounded or displaced, frustration at the failure of previous  peace proposals has marked the week's run-up to this high-level encounter.
France and its west European partners are set on wresting agreement from  US Secretary of State Warren Christopher and his Russian counterpart Andrei  Kozyrev for an agreed ceasefire and political settlement formula.
French foreign minister Alain Juppe, whose country has furnished the  largest contingent for the United Nations in Bosnia, has warned that the UN  forces will not weather another winter there without an agreed peace plan.
But the Clinton administration has been reluctant to see an existing  European settlement plan imposed on the Moslem-led government in Sarajevo.
The US Senate Thursday meanwhile voted to lift the arms embargo on Bosnia,  in a move to bolster the Bosnian government against the Belgrade-backed Serb  forces who have carved out their own "ethnically-cleansed" territory.
France and the United States have officially smoothed over their  differences of approach, after Juppe went to Washington for talks with  Christopher about the Bosnia situation.
The White House said Thursday they had a "common approach".
It said they agreed the Geneva meeting "offers an important opportunity  for the US, France and the international community to continue cooperative  efforts to press the parties to the conflict to negotiate a political  settlement".
Juppe for his part spoke of a "broad agreement of views".
The French minister indicated that a joint declaration expected to come out  of the Geneva meeting could call for a six-month ceasefire, offer a gradual  lifting of sanctions against Belgrade and deal with the division of territory.
The European plan apportions 51 percent of Bosnia-Hercegovina to the  Croats and Moslems, and 49 percent for the Serbs, who through their war-gains  currently control about 70 percent.
But the Bosnian Croats and Moslems, who under US auspices have separately  reached agreement to set up a federation within the former Yugoslav republic,  are now demanding 58 percent for this federation.
The president of the self-proclaimed Bosnian Serb "parliament", Momcilo  Krajisnik, has rejected the deal cut in Vienna, declaring that "the percentage  of territory we each receive depends on many aspects of our struggle."
"Anything over 50 percent cannot be considered," Krajisnik said on a Serb  radio late Thursday, monitored by the Tanjug news agency in Belgrade.
A senior US official in Washington, who asked not to be named, also said  the Moslem-Croat deal was not in line with previous agreements.
Bosnia's vice-president Egup Ganic and prime minister Haris Silajdzic have  both arrived for a ceremony in Geneva Saturday with Christopher and Croatia's  foreign minister Mate Granic to formally mark the federation agreement.
Whatever the outcome of the Geneva meeting -- and diplomats have not been  very optimistic -- the whole Bosnian question will also be high on the agenda  of a meeting in Brussels Monday of European Union foreign ministers.
