Southern forces were Friday also "besieging" northern troops on the  eastern front at Zinjibar after shelling nearby government positions.
The southern army had also retaken control of the key Al-Anad airbase 60  kilometres (35 miles) north of Aden and were pursuing northern troops in the  Al-Rahda region further to the north, the spokesman said.
Earlier in the day Sanaa said its forces had "taken total control of the  airbase," the last barrier on the northern approach to Aden.
Sanaa also confirmed it had fired two Scud missiles at Aden airport  Thursday, in the first surface-to-surface missile attack by northern forces in  the civil war, SABA said.
The government truce was declared hours after President Saleh seemingly  ignored appeals from Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Palestine Liberation  Organisation leader Yasser Arafat to lay down arms for the Al-Adha feast,  which starts on Saturday following the annual pilgrimage to Mecca.
SABA said the truce was ordered to mark the feast and prior to Sunday's  celebration of the fourth anniversary of the unification of South and North  Yemen.
It was agreed after a meeting of the collegiate presidency, the government  and the Yemeni parliament to "offer a last chance to the (southern)  separatists ... to end their rebellion, adhere to the constitution and place  their troops under the command of the head of state," the three bodies said in  a statement to the agency said.
Any violations of the truce would be "firmly dealt with," the statement  added.
Separately in Aden a reliable source said the southern-based YSP was  poised to create a state of South Yemen.
"The decision has been taken and the announcement will probably come  quickly," the source told AFP.
The socialists, led by al-Baid, held a succession of meetings Friday over  plans to set up a government for the southern half of Yemen.
Al-Baid in a hard-hitting speech in Mukullah broadcast over Aden radio  said Saleh was "trying to get his hands on Aden and the oil-rich eastern  provinces and we are not going to let him have either Aden or the oil from  these provinces."
He said Saleh was a "backward little Saddam" - a reference to Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein - and accused him of allying himself with the Islamic  fundamentalists of the Al-Islah movement whose leader Abdallah al-Ahmar is  speaker of parliament.
"We will not be governed by the fundamentalists with whom Ali Abdallah  Saleh has allied himself," Al-Baid said.
Meanwhile Yemen's new Arab League envoy, northerner Mohammed Ahmad Loqman,  arrived in Cairo Friday, officials in the Egyptian capital said.
His nomination is disputed by the southerners, whose own appointee, Chaher  Seif, has vowed to continue in the post at the request of the southern Prime  Minister Haidar Abou Al-Attas, who has been dismissed by Saleh.
