Mark Taylor has made one of his first priorities  the eradication of sledging from Australian cricket on taking over here  Thursday as Allan Border's successor.
The 29-year-old left-handed opening batsman from New South Wales, groomed  for two years as Border's vice-captain, was named the new Australian captain  eight days after Border made his anticipated decision to retire after a record  156 tests.
Taylor, who in his 54 tests has accumulated 4,275 runs at an average of  46.97 with 12 hundreds, won the position ahead of wicketkeeper Ian Healy,  David Boon and Steve Waugh. Healy was named vice-captain.
Taylor's first assignment will be skippering a youthful 15-man team, also  announced Thursday, on the September-October tour of Sri Lanka and Pakistan.  That will be followed by a home Ashes series against England.
No sooner had the affable Taylor, known as "Tubby" to his teammates, been  introduced to a press conference, than his views were sought on sledging in  which a bowler tries to intimidate the batsman with scowls, stares and verbal  abuse.
"I am not a huge supporter of sledging, I think from the batsman's point  of view it only makes you play better," Taylor said.
"I understand in a game situation that sometimes in the heat of the moment  things happen, so I suppose it's up to me to try and keep our players as cool  as I can on the field."
"I will be trying to stamp it out, for sure. There is always going to be a  bit of chat on the field, I don't think the Australian cricket team will be  going out there with their mouths closed.
"Obviously I want to stamp out the ugly incidents that occur in games, but  I won't be trying to turn the Australian cricket team into pussycats."
Australian cricket's image was tarnished during the tour of South Africa  earlier this year when fast bowler Merv Hughes and leg-spinner Shane Warne  were fined for their behaviour in the Johannesburg first test.
"I don't think the damage has been irreparable," said Taylor. "But the  important thing from the Australian Cricket Board's and my point of view is to  get on playing good hard cricket."
Taylor downplayed any suggestion he was to oversee a new authoritarian  approach.
"I don't think I'm the schoolmaster type, I don't think I am going to be  waving the cane over the guys and saying 'if you go out there sledging I'm  going to whack you across the hand'."
"The incidents in South Africa will be mentioned to the players, firstly  about what can happen to cricket and also to your bank balance ... guys being  fined 4,000 dollars, it's certainly not much fun to them, either.
"I think we can come to some sort of agreement without me waving a wand.  That's one of those things that we are going to have to talk about in the  future."
Taylor said he would like to lead the Australian team by consensus, but  added: "I think sometimes in this job you've just got to go with your gut  feeling.
"I've been appointed because people see that the way I think is the way  they want the Australian cricket team to play it. It's up to me to be my own  man and make my own decisions, but hopefully my decisions will go along with  those of the senior players."
Taylor said he had discussed his role with Lawrie Sawle, the chairman of  selectors.
He said he had purposefully kept a low profile over the last week in the  wake of Border's decision to call it a day.
"I tried to hide a lot from it. I was very hard to contact over the last  week and I wanted it that way, because it was something to do with Allan  Border and Australian cricket, and not Mark Taylor."
Taylor said he had no special goals mapped out for the Australian team.
"I think Allan was lucky because he played so many test matches that he  only had to walk out there and people followed him. From my point of view,  I've played less games than him and I will have to earn the other players'  respect as captain
"But I'm a pretty good communicator, especially on a one-to-one basis, so  that will be my first line of attack to talk individually with all the  players."
