China warned the United States Thursday not to  attach any conditions to renewal of its MFN status, saying such an action  would have an "adverse influence" on bilateral ties.
A foreign ministry spokeswoman said most favoured nation (MFN) trade  status was "a reciprocal and a mutually beneficial trade arrangement."
"Any move which runs counter to this will undermine the foundation for the  economic and trade relations between the two countries and will have adverse  influences on Sino-US relations," she said.
The comments followed confirmation by a senior US official Wednesday that  Washington may settle for imposing limited sanctions on Beijing to express  displeasure over its human rights record, rather than carrying out its threat  to withdraw China's MFN status.
China has consistently condemned US President Bill Clinton's 1993 decision  to make "significant overall progress" in human rights a precondition for this  year's renewal of MFN. Clinton must decide on the issue by June 3.
US businessmen, who have invested some eight billion dollars in China,  have warned the president that even attaching conditions to MFN renewal or  directing sanctions at particular sectors could draw a visceral response from  Beijing.
Diplomats here say the business community's concern is legitimate.
"The reaction to conditional MFN might be adverse in a way that could be  really quite surprising to the Americans," said one diplomat. "A head of steam  has built up in China that is preparing them for a fairly robust response to  whatever happens."
"We hope the United States government will make a sensible decision," said    foreign ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin Thursday, pointing to recent  expressions of support from US businessmen, congressmen and press circles for  unconditional MFN renewal as a "positive" development.
Wu, at a weekly briefing, appeared keen to play up China's cooperation with  the United States over a number of sensitive issues.
He was at pains to deny allegations that China was continuing to export  prison labour products to the United States in violation of two bilateral  agreements, saying this was "sheer fabrication."
Ending such exports was one of the conditions laid down by Clinton for MFN  renewal.
Harry Wu, a former Chinese prisoner who now heads of the US Laogai  Research Foundation, said Wednesday that during a recent two-month visit to  China he had secretly photographed and videoed prisons disguised as factories  that continued to export goods to the United States.
Wu Jianmin also threw cold water on damaging foreign press reports that a  law suit has been filed against leading dissident Wei Jingsheng, who was  released from jail in September after 14-1/2 years and picked up by police in  April.
"He remains under surveillance, but to allege that a law suit has been  filed against him is totally groundless," said Wu.
The spokesman also confirmed China had agreed to visits by technicians  from Voice of America (VOA) to discuss alleged Chinese jamming of broadcasts  by the US radio network -- cessation of which was another MFN condition.
A US embassy official said one technician was already in Beijing and will  soon begin discussions with Chinese colleagues "to review information  concerning possible interference with VOA radio signals."
Wu, who denied any jamming by the Chinese authorities, said the  technicians would simply discuss technical matters and rejected suggestions  that the agreement amounted to a concession to Washington over MFN.
Despite efforts to stress Chinese cooperation, Wu also indicated there was  only so much Beijing could do to ensure unconditional renewal of MFN.
"The US can only do what is permitted by its laws. The same is true of  China. China can only do what is permitted by China's laws," Wu said.
