Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin warned the  PLO on Friday against any attempt to turn Jerusalem into the headquarters for  Palestinian self-rule.
Rabin said Israel would do "everything necessary" to ensure that the PLO  respected the Declaration of Principles signed last September and set up its  autonomy institutions in the West Bank town of Jericho.
He refused to divulge what measures Israel might take.
But he said that "there have been developments in Jerusalem in recent  years which should not have happened," a reference to Orient House which has  become the Palestinian headquarters for the occupied territories.
Rabin dismissed reports that the PLO had drafted a constitution  proclaiming Jerusalem as "capital of Palestine."
"We have signed an agreement for autonomy for an interim period and  anything else is hot air," he said.
Israel captured and annexed the Arab, east side of Jerusalem in the 1967  Middle East war. It is now home to 167,000 Israelis and 155,000 Palestinians.
The future of the city is the biggest point of dispute between Israel and  the Palestinians, and it flared again last week when Israeli radio played a  tape of PLO leader Yasser Arafat calling for a "jihad" to liberate the city.
He later denied he had meant the word's usual connotation of a holy war,  but Rabin called the explanation "evasive."
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Friday that Jerusalem would remain the  united capital of Israel and his government would make no "political  concessions" on the issue, although it might allow easier access to holy sites.
Israel and the PLO are not scheduled to discuss Jerusalem at least until  negotiations begin on a final settlement in two years time.
Rabin met several of his ministers on Thursday night to study PLO plans  for East Jerusalem such as a university, an economic institute and deploying  security men around Orient House, which would have a form of diplomatic  immunity, Israeli radio said.
The prime minister also met military chiefs on Thursday who recommended he  establish "red lines" in Jerusalem to thwart Palestinian nationalist  aspirations, the daily Haaretz said.
Police Minister Moshe Shahal said Thursday that Arafat would not be  allowed in Jerusalem when he visits Gaza and Jericho next month.
