US President Bill Clinton on Friday ruled out any  move by the United States to lift an arms embargo on Bosnia-Hercegovina in the  absence of a ceasefire there.
"A lot people have said things in this Bosnian thing ... as a way of  shifting to others the responsibility they have for their own frustrations,"  he told a BBC interviewer.
"Let's just be frank about this: I did not raise the prospect of any kind  of unilateral lifting of the embargo...
"I said that any discussion of that could not proceed until there was some  sort of cessation of hostilities and that I personally would not favor  changing the position of the United States, which is that the embargo should  not be lifted until a) there is a peace agreement in force in Bosnia and b)  some other changes have occurred in Serbia ... I've not changed our position."
He added: "Our European allies have not favored lifting it for good  reasons. They have soldiers on the ground. There are British soldiers in  Bosnia. They do not want them subject to attack, capture, because the arms  embargo has been lifted."
In the same interview, he also spoke of relations between Britain and  Northern Ireland, saying it was too early to make a judgement on the visit to  New York by Gerry Adams, president of the IRA's political wing, earlier this  year.
"I don't think we can know yet whether the decision was or was not a  mistake in terms of what will happen over the long run. I think plainly it was  designed to further the debate and I hope it did that," Clinton said.
Referring to a recent exchange of questions and answers between Sinn Fein  and the British government "clarifying" the December 15 declaration for peace  in Northern Ireland, he added: "I'm very frankly pleased that at long last  they issued their questions and the British government provided answers and  all that's been published. And I'm hoping that after the June... (European)  elections that we'll see some real progress there."
The Clinton administration earlier this year concluded that Adams was  opposed to violence and agreed to his 48-hour visit to New York to take part  in a forum on Northern Ireland.
But Adams has so far refused to respond to the Anglo-Irish declaration,  which offers Sinn Fein a place in talks once the Irish Republican Army  renounces violence.
However, following the British government's partial clarification of the  declaration, Adams has promised to respond after the June 9 European elections.
