She also left Sabatini stranded with deft drop shots and the Argentinian's  concentration was not helped by a noisy crowd who repeatedly delayed play.
Sabatini had been scheduled to play her old rival Steffi Graf in the  fourth-round.
Farina now plays either 16-year-old Iva Majoli of Croatia or Belgium's  Dominque Monami.
Date, who has never found Paris a happy hunting ground and who went out in  the second-round last year, was well beaten and won only three games against  the 18th-ranked South African.
Coetzer, who has been enjoying an excellent start to the season, now faces  either Australia's Rachel McQuillan or Radka Bobova of the Czech Repulic. She  could well be heading for a fourth-round clash against twelfth-seeded Mary  Pierce of France.
So far this season Coetzer has been a runner-up to Steffi Graf at Indian  Wells and a winner at Prague where she defeated Sweden's Asa Carlsson 6-1, 7-6.
It was a bitter disappointment for the 23-year-old Date who has posted  tournament wins at both Sydney and Tokyo and who reached the semi-finals at  the Australian Open.
Defending champion Sergi Bruguera and the man he beat in last year's final  Jim Courier, both survived their first round matches.
The sixth-seeded Bruguera looked as though he was about to take up where  he left off last year with a fine exhibition of clay-court tennis but after  racing 6-1, 6-1, 5-1 clear after one and a half hours on the centre-court  against Czech opponent Martin Damm, things suddenly went badly wrong.
The 23-year-old Spaniard, who hasn't won a tournament in 1994, found  himself forced into a tie-break -- which he managed to clinch 7-3.
"It was a sticky finish," he admitted. "I thought I'd won and I relaxed  and stopped moving my legs. He played a couple of good matches and got back  into the match."
Bruguera, watched by father and trainer Luis, admitted he was feeling the  pressure of being champion.
"Last year I was more relaxed. Nobody expected anything of me. Now I've  points to defend and everybody is watching me."
"But it's a great feeling to having people wanting you to win," he said.
Courier eliminated 71st-ranked Frenchman Jean-Philippe Felurian 6-1, 6-4,  6-4."
