President Bill Clinton's expected announcement  Thursday of renewal of China's trade status, coupled with some symbolic  sanctions, spells the end of his policy of pressuring Beijing to ease up on  dissent.
It also marks a return to the pragmatism that characterized US-Chinese  relations under former president George Bush -- an ironic turn for Clinton,  who as a candidate accused Bush of coddling the Chinese leadership.
Clinton also backed off this week from a confrontation with another Asian  giant, Japan, after using threats of trade reprisals for more than a year to  try to force it to open its market to US products.
Faced with a total impasse in trade negotiations, the president adopted  the more pragmatic stance of his Republican predecessor.
The timing of Clinton's announcement on renewing China's most favored  nation trade status was still uncertain Thursday, with the White House saying  only that it could come at any time.
The hangup appeared to be last-minute negotiations between the White House  and a minority in Congress who oppose renewing MFN. The talks reportedly  center on barring imports of Chinese arms and ammunition.
The link between MFN and human rights "may not be 100 percent broken. But  it will be substantially broken," a congressional source told AFP. Although  Beijing is far from having complied fully with the seven conditions Clinton  set forth a year ago, most Chinese products will retain their low tariff  status.
Clinton came to office promising to use the trade weapon to wrest  concessions from Beijing on human rights. He calculated that China, which had  a more than 20 billion dollar trade surplus with the United States last year,  could not afford to lose the US market.
But he underestimated Beijing's resistance to US threats as well as the  intensity of pressure from the US business community, which regards the  Chinese market as a modern El Dorado.
The president has become a hostage to his own rhetoric and to his own  foreign policy, whose central goal is the improvement of the United States'  economic position and the promotion of exports to create jobs.
The revelation -- thanks apparently to a very timely leak by Boeing --  that the top aircraftmaker is currently negotiating a five billion dollar  contract with China hammered home the size of the stakes.
Clinton's decision to renounce his human rights-based China policy is a  clear admission that it could not be applied because of its potential cost to  the US economy.
