Yemen's northern foreign minister, Mohammad  Bassandawa, gave the go-ahead here Sunday for the UN Security Council to  discuss calls for a ceasefire to his country's civil war.
His Egyptian counterpart Amr Mussa announced Sanaa's new position after a  meeting between Bassandawa and Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak.
"Sanaa has agreed that the question of a ceasefire be examined by the  United Nations Security Council," in contrast to its previous stand that the  war was an internal matter and the international community should stay out,  Mussa said.
Bassandawa himself said the Council "must insist on preserving Yemen's  unity."
"We want an end to the fighting as well as a Security Council decision in  this direction," the foreign minister said. "Then a dialogue could be launched  between the two parties."
He added that the south must go back on its May 21 declaration of an  independent state, "because this decision is illegal" under the constitution  of Yemen, which was unified in May 1990.
"Unity happened voluntarily in 1990 and it is still the basis of any  solution," he said.
Bassandawa said the north was in contact with southern officials who  reject separation, in contrast to their leader Ali Salem al-Baid, whom Sanaa  wants to put on trial for war crimes.
The foreign minister arrived in Cairo on Saturday, ahead of a meeting of  the Non-Aligned Movement starting Tuesday.
Saudi Arabia and Oman, backed by Egypt, have urged the Security Council to  call for a ceasefire to the war raging in Yemen since May 5 and to impose an  arms embargo on both sides.
The south has welcomed the plan, while insisting that northern troops  withdraw to the old border between the conservative, tribal North Yemen and  former Marxist South.
An envoy from the breakaway south said in the United Arab Emirates (UAE)  on Sunday that he expected the Security Council to call for a ceasefire in the  next few days.
"I expect the Security Council to discuss the Yemeni problem in the next  few days and to issue a resolution calling for a ceasefire," the envoy, Haidar  Abu Bakr al-Attas, told AFP before flying to Kuwait.
"The resolution will be binding to all parties and we are ready to stick  to it. I think it is in the interest of the Yemeni people to halt the war," he  said.
UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros Ghali, meanwhile, said that he would  send an envoy to Yemen after a ceasefire to help reconcile warring parties and  restore unity.
"I hope the Security Council will issue a resolution calling on the Yemeni  parties to halt hostilities and to ask the UN secretary general to send a  special envoy," he told the United Arab Emirates newspaper Al-Ittihad.
