Japanese semiconductor parts maker Kyocera Corp.  said Monday its consolidated pre-tax earnings surged 39 percent from a year  earlier to 68.4 billion yen (664 million dollars) in the year to March.
But the world's largest manufacturer of ceramic packages for integrated  circuits said global sales dipped 0.9 percent to 428 billion yen in the same  period, depressed by lower sales in the United States and Europe.
While Kyocera gave no consolidated forecasts for the current year, the  company said parent earnings were expected to recover to 42.1 billion yen  after falling 7.8 percent to 35.1 billion yen in the latest year. Parent  sales, which were flat at 300 billion yen, were forecast to rebound to 328  billion yen.
"In the electronics industry, growing demand for computer-related goods is  expected to emerge following the steady recovery in the United States and  Asian nations," the company said in a statement.
Kyocera also said it would boost investment in telecommunications, liquid  crystal displays, electronic devices and semiconductors in the current year.
The improved group earnings in the latest year reflected strong  semiconductor sales and higher profits at amusement game affiliate Taito Corp.  and telecommunications affiliate DDI Corp.
"In the fine ceramics sector, sales remained virtually unchanged as  sluggish sales of fine ceramics for machinery and automotive parts offset  brisk sales for semiconductors. In the semiconductor sector, despite the  higher yen, sales increased, supported by exports to the United States," the  company said.
"In the electronic devices sector, exports to Asia were brisk but the  higher yen depressed sales overall. Sales of solar systems and portable  telephones were good. But sales of optical equipment were depressed by  sluggish sales in Europe."
Overall sales in Japan rose 2.8 percent to 216 billion yen but sales in  the United States dropped 9.6 percent to 97 billion and sales in Europe  declined 10.6 percent to 57 billion. Sales in Southeast Asian leapt 9.5  percent to 53 billion while other sales soared 152 percent to almost five  billion yen.
Electronic devices sales fell 3.3 percent to 148 billion yen as sales of  fine ceramics dropped 0.1 percent to 34 billion yen.
But semiconductor sales grew 4.1 percent to 102 billion yen while sales of  cutting equipment, jewellery, solar systems and other ceramics climbed 0.7  percent to 35 billion yen. Other electronics sales climbed 15.6 percent to six  billion yen. Sales of electrical equipment meanwhile edged up 0.1 percent to  63 billion yen but optical equipment sales dropped 9.2 percent to 39 billion  yen.
