Emerson Fittpaldi failed in his bid  to wrest Indianapolis 500 pole position from teammate Al Unser Jnr here  Sunday, settling for a front row spot beside fellow Brazilian Raul Boesel.
Fittipaldi's four-lap qualifying run over the 2.5-mile (4km) oval was  227.303 mph (363.684 km/h), well off the 228.011 mph (364.817 km/h) standard  set by Unser in Saturday's rain-shortened session.
Conditions were warmer and windier Sunday, making top speeds tougher to  achieve. Fittipaldi, the reigning Indy champion, had minor problems in the  second turn because of the wind.
"It was much harder than Saturday," Fittipaldi said. "Conditions changed.  The wind was blowing harder. But Al made a great run. He deserves the pole."
Unser won his first Indy pole and a 100,000-dollar first prize. He will  make his first front-row Indy start 24 years after his father won from his  only Indy pole.
"There was a lot of difference in the weather," Unser said. "Conditions  changed 3 or 4 mph. We got lucky enough to go yesterday when the weather was  better."
Unser will start on the inside of the front row for the May 29 race, with  Boesel in the center and Fittipaldi on the outside. Boesel makes his second  straight front-row start, after going from the outside and finishing fourth  last year.
Mario Andretti, planning to retire after this season, qualified ninth for  his final Indy start with an average of 223.503 mph (357.604 km/h). He felt  the efects of the wind as well.
"I totally lost the front end," Andretti said. "I was chasing it. I was  looking all over the race track trying to get the grip."
"We just didn't have the setup for these conditions. We're in the show.  Now we can concentrate on getting ready for the race," he said.
Mexico's Adrian Fernandez and US drivers Robby Gordon and Jimmy Vasser  also qualified Sunday.
Canada's Paul Tracy was given medical approval to resume driving here  Sunday. He suffered a concussion in a practice crash Friday that kept him out  of qualifying Saturday, ending his pole hopes even though his car was among  the fastest in a week of practice. Tracy waved of a slow qualifying bid  Sunday, minutes after Fittipaldi's run.
js94bb
