The BBC Monday revealed "new evidence", filmed with  a secret camera, of the desperate conditions of an estimated ten million  prisoners in China's forced labour camps.
The footage will be shown to US Congressmen this week as they debate  whether or not to renew China's trading status as a most favoured nation, the  BBC said.
It is believed that about 10 percent of those held, including leaders of  the Tianamen Square pro-democracy protest in June 1989, are political  prisoners, whose only crime is to have opposed China's Communist regime.
The Chinese Embassy in Britain declined to be interviewed by the BBC, but  said it considered the report to be "a gross misrepresentation of China".
In a 2,000 kilometer trawl through Shin-jang province across the Gobi  desert, BBC reporter Sue Lloyd-Roberts filmed some of China's network of  forced labour camps known as "lao-gai" and got "the closest yet" to China's  forced labourers.
These are said to be crucial to the country's economy -- with forced  labour understood to account for half of Shin-jang province's foreign exports.
Filming in areas forbidden to foreigners, the BBC obtained images of  prisoners marched through factory buildings, tilling fields -- and of mostly  unmarked, prisoner's graves, sand-swept in the Gobi desert.
Former prisoner Harry Wu explained prisoners could be left in the desert  for life.
"In Chinese forced labour camps, all prisoners in China have two  performances -- labour performace; political perforamce," he said, adding that  if they failed to satisfy on either count, their sentence was increased.
The few attempts by prisoners to escape have all ended in capture and  execution and many commit suicide, it was reported.
While the political purpose, written on the walls of all "lao-gai", is to  "reinforce the People's Democratic Dictatorship", small notices spell out the  prisons' commercial purpose.
One prison had a sign saying "pharmaceutical company", and it was also  reported a prison shop was selling leather jackets, understood to have been  treated by prisoners and exported for sale abroad.
US President Bill Clinton has not yet indicated which way he will move on  the matter of most favoured nation status, which grants favourable access to  the US market for Chinese goods.
But Washington has said renewal, which is to be decided by a June 3  deadline, is linked to progress in China's human rights record.
