The death toll from a heat-wave in northern  Indian rose to 70 on Sunday as temperatures were expected to rise even higher.
Record temperatures have been beaten in some places, but the monsoons have  also arrived on the southern coast three days ahead of time.
Twenty more people have been reported dead of sunstroke since Friday in  the desert state of Rajasthan, where inhabitants in many towns and villages  have faced temperatures of up to 49 degrees celsius (120.2 Fahrenheit), press  reports said.
The two-week heat-wave in Rajasthan has been described as the worst the  state has experienced since 1905. Hospitals have opened separate wards to  treat sunstroke cases and are struggling with outbreaks of jaundice, cholera  and gastroenteritis.
The weather office offered no hope of immediate respite from the misery,  aggravated by shortages of power and water, and warned of hotter days ahead.
Ram Snehi, director of the meterological office here, said the  temperatures, already three degrees above normal, would soar higher.
The capital, New Delhi, experienced its hottest day of the season on  Saturday with the mercury touching 44.2 degrees celsius (111.56 Fahrenheit),  just a fraction short of the highest recorded in five years.
The city's eight million inhabitants battened down indoors with their  air-conditioners and ceiling fans going full blast as Sunday morning brought  no signs of relief.
Even the hilly state of Himachal Pradesh, a popular summer resort for  thousands of people trying to escape the burning plains, recorded temperatures  three degrees above normal as the heat-wave smothered new areas.
The annual south-west monsoon meanwhile crossed the southern coast  Saturday ahead of its usual June 1 arrival, bringing torrrential rains in its  wake over Kerala state.
Parts of the south still sweltered as they waited for the monsoon to  advance.
Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao, many of whose colleagues have left for  cooler climes, presented an unusual sight wearing sunglasses on a tour of his  home state of Andhra Pradesh.
"The temperature outside is 42 degrees," the sweating premier said, making  it clear that he was not sporting the eye shades "to look smart."
