The Philippines Monday deported seven more foreign  delegates to an outlawed human-rights forum on East Timor amid mounting  diplomatic embarrassment over the banned meeting.
The expulsions of four Sri Lankans, an Australian and two Portuguese on  the eve of the conference brought the number of deportations to 10.
"Long live East Timor," Sri Lankan human rights activist Freddie Appuhamy  Gamage, 31, shouted to journalists, raising a clenched fist before airport  police dragged him onto a commercial flight which had brought him and three  compatriots to Manila.
East Timor-born Australian Harold Maria, 31, and two Portuguese -- Jose  Alberto de Azeredo Ferreira Lopes, 32, an international law professor at  Oporto University in Portugal, and Jose Morin Dias, 30 -- were also deported.
Over the weekend, three other foreign delegates, including Nobel Peace  Prize winner Mairead Maguire and American university professor Susan Castillo,  were turned back when they arrived here.
The four-day conference on alleged abuses by the Indonesian army in the  former Portuguese territory has been banned for 20 days by a Filipino court,  while President Fidel Ramos has vowed to deport foreigners planning to attend  the meeting.
Manila has also included on its list of banned participants Danielle  Mitterrand, a well-known human rights campaigner and wife of French President  Francois Mitterrand.
Ramos, fearing diplomatic and economic retaliation, is working to ease  friction with Indonesia, which annexed the former Portuguese territory in 1976.
Opposition Senator Francisco Tatad warned that the French first lady's  inclusion on the blacklist was "a costly political mistake that could  temporarily disturb our excellent relations with France."
A statement from the foreign department said "it would be an honor to  welcome" the French first lady to the country either as a tourist or visitor,  but did not explain why her name was blacklisted for the conference.
The statement also accused the conference organisers of trying to use the  first lady's name for propaganda value as Mrs. Mitterrand announced earlier  this month that she would be unable to attend the meeting.
Other foreign delegates already in the country vowed Monday to go ahead  with the meeting despite the ban, in hope of catalysing regional attention in  the plight of the East Timorese.
"We didn't come here to confront the Philippine government, but we stand  for what we think is just," Pedro Pinto Leite, a Portuguese member of the  International Platform of Jurists on East Timor, told reporters.
"If we are to be arrested, we will be arrested. If we are to be deported,  we will be deported," he added.
The court ban was challenged in the Supreme Court on Monday by Pacifico  Agabin, law college dean of the state-run but autonomous University of the  Philippines which would have hosted the meeting.
He said the 20-day injunction granted by a lower court on Friday, which  had acted on a petition by a Ramos ally, violates the freedom of speech  provision guaranteed by the Philippine constitution. The Supreme Court still  has to act on the petition.
Indonesia unilaterally declared East Timor its 27th province in 1976 but  the United Nations still recognizes Lisbon as the administrator there. Human  rights groups say thousands of people have been killed by the Indonesian army.
