Palestinians woke up Friday to  find their own policemen in charge of this sleepy oasis after the Israelis  pulled out of the first autonomous enclave.
"We went to bed expecting another day of waiting," said Khaled Abed after  repeated delays in the handover of power since autonomy was officially  launched on May 4 when Israel and the PLO signed an agreement in Cairo.
"And then what a surprise this morning when we saw the police station we  had learned to hate so much occupied by ... Palestinians," the 28-year-old  said.
Israel officially handed over the town on Friday with a handshake between  its central region military commander, General Ilan Biran, and Palestine  Liberation Army (PLA) General Hajj Ismail.
Earlier, the Israelis discreetly transferred key installations to  Palestinian police officers under cover of darkness.
Forty Palestinian police officers slipped into Jericho from Jordan in the  middle of the night to join 20 of their colleagues who arrived Thursday, but  kept out of the public eye.
Before dawn they were handed over the keys to the police station watched  only by half-a-dozen taxi drivers.
But the news spread like wild fire as a series of buildings from the post  office to a Jewish synagogue were handed over.
Whole families rushed out to the main square to see for themselves.
The front of the police station was hardly recognizable. Green, red, white  and black Palestinian flags had submerged the whole facade and fluttered from  the roof.
Where youths once darted past lobbing rocks at the enemy behind the high  wire fences, hundreds of Palestinians had gathered to throw sweets and kisses  at the new occupants.
Dressed in olive-green uniforms of the PLA, Kalashnikov rifles over their  shoulders, the police looked stunned by it all.
They appeared one by one to acknowledge the cheers and receive the kisses  from the surging crowd.
Abed decided it was a "historic" day for celebration and did not bother  going to his job in a supermarket at the Israeli settlement of Maale Adumim,  between Jerusalem and Jericho.
"Mazel Tov, Mabruk," he shouted, happy to mix the Hebrew and Arabic words  for congratulations.
"I'm so happy. It's the first time we've seen our own soldiers,  Palestinians," Abed yelled.
Arab women gave voice to the shrill ululations of joy heard throughout the  Middle East. They sang, they clapped and laughed.
"My heart is filled with joy to see our policemen, who are our children,  our brothers, our cousins," said 20-year-old Sabah Atrabhanah.
She said she would pray for the release of all the Palestinian prisoners  "so that peace will come at last with the Jews."
Israel is to release about 4,000 prisoners in the coming weeks after  setting more than 1,000 last week in line with the autonomy agreement.
Throughout the town strangers and friends embraced to mark the occasion.
On Allenby Bridge street, near the police station, several new policemen  stood guard.
Cars pulled up to make sure of what they saw. Pasengers would climb out  and hug the guards.
Further down the road, near the court, men, women and children queued up  to have their photographs taken with police officers. A Kalshnikov was handed  from a little boy to a grandmother for the family album.
A captain from the PLA's Al-Aqsa unit was on duty outside the court.
After 27 years in exile, he had not yet had time to go to find his family  and friends. "It doesn't matter. I've got plenty of time now," he said.
However not everyone joined in the party in the town of 15,000.
"We want to see all the West Bank liberated," said Samy el-Muthafar. "And  until that is done, the Palestinian uprising will continue," the unemployed  21-year-old said.
