This year's English Derby promises to be one of the  most open for years -- and the weather looks set to play a key role.
A mere five days ago Skeikh Mohammed would have would have held high hopes  of a first victory in the classic, as rain fell heavily to soften up the Epsom  turf.
Then Craven stakes winner King's Theatre, who will be ridden by last  year's Derby winning jockey, the mercurial Michael Kinane, looked  well-positioned to make up for his disappointing show on Newmarket's firm  ground in the 2,000 Guineas.
Now, at the end of rare dry British bank holiday weekend, the ground is  firming up rapidly, and the odds are tumbling on Dante stakes winner Erhaab,  who broke the track record in his York triumph.
When he returned to the enclosure Willie Carson, who will pilot Hamdan  Al-Maktoum's colt on Wednesday, was heard to shout to trainer John Dunlop that  the Derby was in the bag provided the ground stayed good.
Dunlop hedges his bets with Khamaseen, the Sandown Classic Trial  runner-up, who relishes the 12 furlong distance but is only likely to give the  58-year-old Lester Piggott a realistic chance of victory if the rain returns.
The Sheikh's better chance will lie with the John Gosden-trained Sandown  winner Linney Head, who, along with Khamaseen, will have prompted stronger  backing after Sandown third-placed horse Time Star's victory in the Derby  Italiano.
Broadway Flyer has a good chance of giving John Hills victory in his first  classic. His triumph in the Chester Vase has sent him to the top of the  betting and, despite his lack of pedigree, he will last the distance.
Hills, who also has hopes with Wind In Her Hair in The Oaks on Saturday,  would dearly love to go one better than his father Barry, who had a string of  seconds in the Derby.
Another horse with the staying power is Sunshack, who will give Pat Eddery  his last Derby ride for Khalid Abdullah.
Having impressed with a four-length victory at St Cloud, and provided the  ground is not too good, he could profit from a fast pace start by the  26-strong field.
Guineas winner Mister Baileys looks unlikely to repeat his triumph over 12  furlongs, having faded badly after a mile at York.
The same might have been said of Robert Sangster's colt Colonel Collins,  but on firm ground trainer Peter Chapple-Hyam is confident John Reid can help  him spring a surprise.
