Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who charmed America  with her courage, poise and elegance as the widow of president John Kennedy,  died from cancer surrounded by her children and friends. She was 64.
The former first lady passed away at her Fifth Avenue apartment, in  Manhattan, at 10:15 p.m. (0215 GMT) Thursday after losing a battle with  non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Her daughter, Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, 30, and son, John Kennedy, 30,  were at her bedside, along with a longtime friend Maurice Tempelsman.
Outside, in the rain, a crowd of mourners stood vigil. Some presented the  bereaved family with bouquets of flowers.
As the flag at the John F. Kennedy Library, in Boston, Massachusetts, was  lowered to half mast, President Bill Clinton, in a statement issued in  Washington, described Onassis as "a model of courage and dignity for all  Americans and the World."
"More than any other woman of her time, she captivated our nation and the  world with her intelligence elegance and grace," Clinton said.
"Even in the face of impossible tragedy, she carried the grief of her  family and our entire nation with a calm power that somehow reassured all of  us who mourned," the president said.
Among the most lasting images of the former first lady following the 1963  assassination of her husband in Dallas, Texas, was a picture of her standing  calmly next to Kennedy's new grave holding the hands of their two small  children.
Another showed her in the plane which brought her husband's corpse back to  Washington, standing dazed in a blood-stained dress as Vice-president Lyndon  Johnson took the oath of office.
The widow also of Greek shipping tycoon Aristotle Onassis, she checked in  Monday for the last time at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, where  former president Richard Nixon died earlier this month.
She was released Wednesday after doctors said nothing more could be done  for her.
Onassis had refused antiobiotics for pneumonia and suffered from cancer  that had spread to her liver and brain, The New York Times said quoting a  health care provider.
She slipped into a coma Thursday before passing away, the daily said.
Only last Sunday, she was photographed walking in Central Park.
Onassis revealed in February that she had non-Hodgkins lymphoma, a  fast-growing, lymph-node malignancy that weakens the immune system. She also  underwent surgery for a bleeding ulcer in April.
She had signed a living will in February foregoing aggressive treatment,  the newspaper said.
She was administered the last rites Thursday morning by Monsignor George  Bardes of St. Thomas Moore's Roman Catholic.
Members of the Kennedy family had gathered around her -- Senator Edward  Kennedy, Sargent and Eunice Shriver, Maria Shriver, Ethel Kennedy,  Representative Joseph Kennedy and Onassis' sister, Lee Radzwill Ross.
Senator Kennedy said of his sister-in-law in a statement that she "was  part of our family and part of our hearts for 40 wonderful and unforgettable  years, and she will never really leave us."
He was flying back to Washington when she passed away, his spokeswoman  said.
"Jackie Onassis brought great dignity and grace to the White House and  was, indeed, a charming and wonderful first lady," said former president  George Bush.
"Few women throughout history have touched the hearts and shaped the  dreams of Americans more profoundly," said Bush's predecessor Ronald Reagan.
"She was a remarkable woman in her way," said Reagan's wife, Nancy.
"I'm sad she passed away but I am happy because I think she didn't  suffer," said Jane Calder, 30, who left some white roses with the doorman of  Onassis' apartment building.
Another woman said she dropped everything and immediately came to Onassis'  building after hearing the news of her death.
"We love her, she was a great lady all the way," she said.
An intensely private woman, Onassis shunned the spotlight following  Kennedy's assassination and her stormy second marriage to Onassis from 1968 to  1975.
Long the prey of paparazzis and tabloids, who dubbed her "Jackie O,"  Onassis had fought fiercely over the years to protect her family's privacy and  to raise her children to be as normal as possible.
Out of the limelight, she made a career as a book editor, first at Viking  Press and then Doubleday, handling a dozen books a year on non-fiction  subjects such as ballet and the performing arts.
