Tension is rising in Turkey on the eve of the  annual Moslem Sacrifice feast as Islamic activists prepare to challenge an  official claim to the valuable hides of millions of sheep about to be  slaughtered.
The semi-official Turkish Aeronautical Society (THK) has sole rights to  collect and market the hides -- a monopoly which the Islamic fundamentalists  are doing their best to end.
At the beginning of May, the government issued a series of decrees  reminding Turks that THK's exclusive rights were still valid and warned that  anyone attempting to breach the monopoly could face prosecution.
During the four-day festival, about four million animals will be  slaughtered, mostly sheep but also cattle and goats.
The hides which are collected and sold to tanneries are estimated to be  worth some 60 million dollars, THK president Attila Tacoy said.
THK, set up in 1925 to promote civil aviation, has had sole rights to the  hides for decades, but in 1986 under the late president Turgut Ozal, religious  bodies linked to the Islamic Prosperity Party and various Moslem sects, were  allowed a share in the bounty.
The present right-left coalition government restored the THK's monopoly in  1992 but until this year the authorities did little to close the loopholes  opened up by the previous regime.
In 1993, THK managed to collected only 20 percent of all hides, Tacoy  said. "If we don't stop them (the fundamentalists) this time," their take-home  revenue since 1986 from sales of the hides could reach 300 million dollars, he  said.
This would make the hides from sacrificial animals "their biggest source  of funding", Tacoy said.
The government's new tough line towards Islamic activists is believed to  be a response to the strong showing by Islamic candidates in the March 27  municipal elections.
Since the beginning of May, Islamic militants have been campaigning hard  in the media and on the streets for the right to go on collecting the skins.
In a joint statement several Islamic religious groups and associations  have accused the government of "violating ownership rights and the freedom of  a person to make charitable donations".
The Islamic daily Zaman, printing comments from the public, reported that  many Moslems believed THK was using the money from the skins to throw lavish   dinner parties at which alcohol flowed, while others said they used it to  finance parachute jumps for the Turkish elite.
