The Israeli army withdrew from its  last bastion on Wednesday amid a barrage of teargas and rocks, leaving  Palestinians to tear down the hated symbols of 27 years of occupation.
As dawn broke on the newly-autonomous territory, cranes moved in to lift  away the cement block chicanes which disfigured so many streets.
Celebrating Gazans ripped down the barbed wire which sealed since 1967  roads around the military governor's headquarters, the final building  evacuated by the Israelis.
On Palestine Avenue, bulldozers demolished cement-filled oil drums which  the army had thrown across streets since the intifada or uprising broke out in  December 1987.
The huge, hated rusting walls divided up neighbourhoods, forcing people to  make long detours, so the army could control rioting crowds more easily.
Youngsters smashed the army's signposts, in Arabic and Hebrew, as soon as  the last soldiers drove off to redeploy around the Jewish settlements  concentrated in the southern Gaza Strip.
All night long Palestinian policemen and Yasser Arafat's guerrillas fired  wildly into the air in triumph, as the population partied.
Autonomy finally started on the ground in the Gaza Strip and Jericho in  line with the September 13 Declaration of Principles.
At the Shifa hospital, 15 babies were brought into the new world of  self-rule, doctors said.
Jamalat Abu Jarad said she had named her son Ahed, meaning "return home",  to celebrate the arrival of 2,800 Palestinian policemen in the Gaza Strip and  another 462 in the Jericho region.
Mariam al-Najar chose the name Hanin, or burning desire, for her daughter.  "I longed so much for the day when I would be free," the 21-year-old from Khan  Yunes said.
Another newborn was called quite simply "Palestine".
Gazans also began lifting the psychological barriers of occupation.
In Nasser school, Mirvat Sirdah, told her class of 14 year olds: "From  today I will begin to teach you the history and geography of Palestine."
"Until now this word was banned from school books," she said. "You have  had to learn about Egypt. But now I will be able to talk about our great  country."
"You must become good citizens, plant trees, keep the streets clean, make  our country the most beautiful in the world."
"We are going to live in the same land with the Israelis but without guns."
For the children, the end of occupation meant being able to run around  freely, anywhere.
"The sound of the shooting and fireworks woke me up in the night," said  Ina Yazegi, 14. "Now I want to go everyhwere, at any time, knowing that I will  not find any Israeli soldiers."
Hassan Dalloud is 86 and has seen the Turks, the British, the Egytpians  and now the Israelis come and go in Gaza.
But he said only now was he truly happy, watching "my soldiers".
He laid out a table with sandwiches and water melon for the new policemen,  who were more than pleased to oblige.
"This is only the start, I will give them food every day," the old man  said. "They deserve it, they are brave combatants."
