Civilian pilots from three UN aircraft refused  Wednesday to run the gauntlet of Bosnian Serb gunners at Tuzla airport,  shelled a day earlier by Serb forces.
Their refusal came as 11 French aid workers detained by Bosnian Serbs on  accusations of arms trafficking were released in return for payment of 44,000  dollars and flown out of Sarajevo.
The UN Protection Force had scheduled three flights to ferry in radar  equipment into Tuzla, a Moslem city in northeastern Bosnia, but a UN spokesman  said the Ukrainian pilots refused to take off from Zagreb after the Serbs  shelled the airstrip Tuesday just after a UN plane landed.
The pilots "refused to take off because of the danger," UNPROFOR spokesman  Major Rob Annink said here. He added the pilots were "civilians hired by  UNPROFOR" while the planes were Ukrainian Ilyushin-76s.
The three UN planes were to have brought in five pieces of US-made radar  equipment to provide information on how many shells landed and where they were  fired from.
Annink refused to say whether NATO warplanes would take retaliatory action  if there was more Serb shelling. That would be a "big step," he said.
When Tuesday's shelling occurred in Tuzla, a city of some 170,000  including 60,000 refugees and one of six "safe havens" under UN protection, a  NATO plane was at hand and procedures to scramble it were put in motion,  Annink said.
But Lieutenant General Michael Rose, UNPROFOR military chief in Bosnia,  and Yasushi Akashi, special envoy of UN secretary-general Boutros  Boutros-Ghali "made the decision not to request air support," Annink added.
The Bosnian Serbs, whose forces surround the airport, said they had  received no advance notice of the UN plane's arrival at Tuzla.
One shell crashed into the Tuzla hotel on Tuesday, causing damage but no  injuries, a UN military observer in the city told AFP on Wednesday.
In Paris, a spokeswoman for the charity group Premiere Urgence (Emergency  Aid) meanwhile said the organisation had paid out 4,000 dollars a head to  obtain the release of their workers, held since April 8 on suspicion of  gun-running to the Bosnian army.
Spokeswoman Pascale de Lomas said the money paid out was "bail" and that  the sum "was too small to be considered a ransom."
The 11 -- 10 men and one woman -- were driven from Serb-controlled  Lukavica where they had been held to Sarajevo airport and put on a helicopter  to be flown to a French vessel in the Adriatic Sea, military sources said.
They were expected back in France late Wednesday.
French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur meanwhile detailed his country's  plans to realign and reduce its military presence, telling parliament French  soldiers would pull out of Bihac, a Moslem pocket in north-west Bosnia, "in  six months."
He said this would allow Paris to "regroup" forces which were "too  dispersed and too vulnerable."
He added he had already told UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali of  France's wish to pull out the French force, numbering some 1,200 at Bihac,  "where the Moslems are fighting each other."
Balladur also confirmed 800 French soldiers deployed at Glina, in  Serbian-held Krajina in northern Croatia, would leave former Yugoslavia by  June 15 as part of a French plan to cut its total 6,800 force to 6,000. That  would still leave it as the largest UN contingent.
On Tuesday, French Defence Minister Francois Leotard had said Paris was to  pull out some 2,500 soldiers from Croatia and Bosnia.
But it remained unclear whether France would pull out its 1,200-strong  Bihac force altogether, or redeploy them in Sarajevo, as suggested Tuesday by  the French foreign ministry.
