A stampede during the annual  pilgrimage to Mecca killed around 200 pilgrims, witnesses said Tuesday.
They were trampled to death on Monday during a ritual known as "stoning  the devil" in Mina, a town 10 kilometres (six miles) east of Mecca.
Mehmet Nuri Yilmaz, a Turkish religious affairs official attending the  pilgrimage, told the Turkish news agency Anatolia that 182 people had died,  including four Turks.
Some witnesses said the tragedy claimed the lives of more than 200  pilgrims and injured hundreds more. One said: "Dozens of bodies lay on the  ground."
The health ministry said "a total of 829 people died during the pilgrimage  season this year, as a result of this afternoon's stampede and for other  reasons such as heart attacks and old age."
The tragedy occurred because too many pilgrims had crowded into a small  area where pilgrims say prayers and throw pebbles at three stellas, or  standing stones, representing Satan, the ministry added.
The three-day event follows the feast of the sacrifice, or Aid al-Adha.
Workers responsible for looking after the stella removed the first bodies  as ambulances were held up by the chaos and only reached the scene after  security forces cleared a path, witnesses said.
Police later closed the tunnels leading to Mina, including the one where  more than 1,400 pilgrims, mainly Indonesians and Turks, died in a stampede in  1990.
The incident occurred as the Saudi authorities were proclaiming the  successful completion of this year's pilgrimage, in which a record 2.5 million  Moslems took part.
It also said that 6,400 received hospital treatment as a result of sun  stroke and fainting.
Before news of the stampede, King Fahd had sent a message to Pilgrimage  Minister Mahmud Ben Mohamed Safar praising the "success" of the annual event.
The pilgrimage to Mecca, which all Moslems are expected to perform once  during their lives if they can afford it, officially began on May 20 this year  but pilgrims began arriving several weeks beforehand.
An Iranian radio correspondent from Mecca in Saudi Arabia said there were  no Iranian pilgrims present when the incident occured.
