Palestinian policemen and the armed  guerrillas of PLO chairman Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement fired 25,000 bullets  in the air Wednesday to celebrate the "liberation" of Gaza after 27 years of  occupation.
"I'm flying like a bird," said Ziyad al Atrash, one of the PLO generals  who has returned to the Strip to run the police force. "I am waking from a  dream and I feel it has become reality.
"The shooting, that's a people marking their freedom," said Atrash, his  voice breaking with emotion.
As soon as the last Israeli soldier drove out of Gaza City in the early  hours of Wednesday, Atrash, who sits on a liaison committee with Israel, was  the first to climb onto the roof of the military governor's headquarters.
He pointed his Kalshnikov to the sky and emptied its clip.
The Israeli army left Gaza City until last, pulling out first from the  centre and south of the strip, then from the West Bank town of Jericho,  leaving the city centre headquarters to last.
"I feel like a man who has returned home after a long journey, like a  mother who finds her lost child.
"If I had not been able to witness all this I would have given my sight to  my son so he could see it," Atrash said.
In the abandoned headquarters, the Hebrew writing on the wall warned, "If  you want peace prepare for war".
But the Palestinian police were oblivious to anything but the swarming  crowd of well-wishers, who danced, sang and waved flags as fireworks exploded  all around.
Every policeman, former soldiers of the Palestine Liberation Army, emptied  three clips on his rifle to mark the end of the long, painful exile.
The youngest amongs them knew of "Palestine" only from the lips of parents.
"I have been fighting since my youth and now I've arrived here and I am  already old," said the police chief, General Nasr Youssef.
"I now want my people to enjoy better living conditions, I want the region  to be calm and the next generation to live in peace."
The muezzin's pre-dawn call echoes over the city, but the party goes on.
Those who fought the occupation from inside the territories, the  underground guerrillas, are out on the streets in force after years of being  hunted by Israeli undercover units.
Mahmud al-Khor aimed his Uzi machine pistol in the air and let rip.
Once head of the Fatah Hawks, the 35-year-old has spent 15 years in Israel  jails.
"I thought I would be killed before I saw this day," he admitted.
"It's a magnificent moment that many of my comrades have not seen because  they were killed too soon."
It was all too much for Sami al-Khodari. His childhood dream has come true.
He was born with the occupation and lived outside the military  headquarters all his life.
Khodari always wanted to hoist a Palestinian flag on the giant antenna  atop the building. In the night he did just that.
"Now I'm wating for Abu Ammar (Arafat) and all my brothers from outside,"  he said.
