A lone rightwing gunman tried to assassinate former  prime minister Morihiro Hosokawa on Monday, in an assault that shocked  political leaders and sharply reminded the country of brooding nationalist  sentiment.
The gunman fired a single shot at Hosokawa from around 10 metres (33 feet)  as he emerged from a meeting, but the bullet hit the ceiling and there were no  casualties, police said.
The man was wrestled to the floor and Hosokawa was bundled into a car and  whisked away to safety, they said.
The assailant identified himself as Masakatsu Nozoe, 52, and said he was a  member of a rightwing group called Shokonjuku, police said.
Nozoe told police that Shokonjuku is based in Tokyo, but did not  elaborate, an investigator said, adding police had no immediate details about  that organisation.
Police said Nozoe was apparently angered by remarks that Hosokawa made  soon after taking office, when the premier apologised for Japan's invasion of  China and criticised Japan's role in World War II as a "war of aggression."
"I did it because the business of the war and the economy got on my  nerves," he was quoted as saying.
Hosokawa was attacked while standing at the entrance of Keio Plaza Hotel  after he attended an inaugural meeting held by the Tokyo chapter of his Japan  New Party (JNP).
Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata issued an immediate statement, angrily  condemning the attack as an assault on the foundations of Japan's post-war  society.
"If it had succeeded it would have led to the destruction of democracy,"  he said.
Hosokawa, a suave, youthful-looking 56-year-old, came to power last August  in general elections that ended the Liberal Democratic Party's (LDP) 38-year  grip on Japanese politics.
In one of his first moves as premier, he issued an unprecedented apology  for Japan's role in World War II, a step that triggered the ire of die-hard  Japanese nationalists.
Hosokawa was forced to quit last month after being grilled in parliament  over a loan of 100 million yen (960,000 dollars) he received from the  scandal-tainted Sagawa Kyubin trucking group in 1982.
Hosokawa said the loan had been repaid. But he failed to show convincing  evidence to the LDP and other opposition parties, which suspected it was a  kickback.
Opposition groups have demanded that Hosokawa testify in parliament about  the scandal, while some members of the JNP, one of the major groups in the  ruling coalition, also said he should resign as party leader.
An intense internal debate is unfolding in Japan about World War II,  triggered not just by Hosokawa's apology but also by war anniversaries and an  upcoming visit to the United States by Emperor Akihito.
The June 10-26 imperial tour was initially scheduled to include Pearl  Harbor, site of Japan's surprise attack on the US Navy in December 1941 that  brought America into World War II.
But the Pearl Harbor visit was formally dropped last Friday, amid fears  among conservatives that the emperor would be obliged to apologise for the  attack.
