The newly-appointed Palestinian  police chief for the autonomous Gaza Strip and Jericho on Sunday issued a  stern warning to the fundamentalist militia HAMAS after it kidnapped and  executed two supposed collaborators.
In a statement published in the Gaza Strip, General Nasser Yussef said:  "Gangs within HAMAS are going about kidnapping and murdering people, as in the  latest incident on Friday, when they killed Hussam Sleiman Doubs and Abdel  Wahab Sobhi Radi and kidnapped another Palestinian, without any legal right to  do so.
"We are issuing a stern warning to those who think they can attack our  people and their right to security, justice and peace, as well as our right to  exercise our national authority."
The two murdered men were kidnapped from Gaza City by masked gunmen on  Wednesday and were found hanging Friday from electricity pylons, the first  such executions since self-rule was launched this month. A third man kidnapped  Wednesday had still not been found Sunday.
HAMAS said Sunday it would temporarily stop killing people suspected of  collaborating with Israel.
HAMAS said it had decided "to halt, for the time being, the pursuit of  agents and their execution, in order to allow the Palestinian police to carry  out their duties in this area."
But it warned that "the role of agents is turning more and more dangerous  for the mujahedeen (Islamic fighters), who consider themselves in a constant  struggle against the (Israeli) occupation forces."
A Palestinian police official, declining to be named, told AFP that the  pledge was not enough.
"They have not handed over the culprits of Friday's executions and we are  going to launch a search for them ... not because it is HAMAS but because they  have broken the law and killed people living under our authority," he said.
General Yussef said earlier: "We have officially asked HAMAS leaders to  hand them over so we can try them. It is as much in their interest as it is in  ours that they do it."
He said it was unacceptable that HAMAS act as "prosecutor, lawyer, judge  and hangman."
Responsibility for security on the autonomous Gaza Strip and the self-rule  enclave of Jericho has passed to the Palestinian police under terms of the  Israel-PLO autonomy deal, an agreement that HAMAS opposes.
