Telecom New Zealand Friday announced a profit  of 528.1 million NZ dollars (304 million US) for the year ended March 31, up  15.4 percent from last year's 457.7 million dollars, excluding abnormal  restructuring costs.
As the result was announced an academic said Telecom was making too much  money and might, as a result, attract attention from regulatory authorities.
Operating revenue was up 22.7 million dollars to 2.497 billion dollars.  This compared with a 53.3 million dollars decline in revenue the previous  year.
Telecom cut its employee numbers by 25 percent during the year. Telecom's  operating expenses for the year were down 64.7 million dollars to 1.612  billion dollars, excluding abnormal restructuring costs.
Staff shedding was reflected in gross personnel costs, which fell 11.6  percent over the year, and was the major factor in a 3.9 percent decline to  1.612 billion dollars in operating expenses.
At March 31 Telecom had 202 access lines per operating employee, compared  with 142 a year earlier and 123 in March 1992.
"The pace at which the number of personnel continues to decline will hinge  largely on the introduction of new systems, the timing of which is difficult  to forecast precisely," chairman Peter Shirtcliffe and chief executive  Roderick Deane said in their annual review.
About 1,000 more jobs are to be eliminated this financial year.
Meanwhile Victoria University professor of accounting Don Trow said  Friday's profit was too much for a near monopoly.
He said that if profits continued to grow, then the company is forecast to  reach more than 680 million dollars within two years, and the regulatory  Commerce Commission may be forced to consider the question of excessive  profits.
The return works out to more than 20 percent on investment, the highest  for any public company listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange. At 680  million dollars that return grows to 30 percent; unheard of in a large company  in a country with low inflation.
Once state owned, Telecom is now half owned by two American companies,  Ameritech and Bell Atlantic, with the rest owned by small shareholders and New  Zealand and overseas fund managers.
Trow said the profit return was very high for a utility with secure cash  flows and profits unlikely to be badly affected by economic downturns.
He said Telecom was still in a position of substantial protection as its  main competitor, Clear Communications, had not yet had the chance to provide  effective competition in the local calling market.
Friday's result show revenue growth of 22.7 million dollars or 0.9 percent  compared with a 2.1 percent decline in the year ended March 1993.
The number of telephone access lines grew 3.8 percent, national call  volume 9.9 percent, international outward 11 percent and international inward  12.4 percent.
Directories and tariff revenue grew 13.1 percent and income from enhanced  services 23.6 percent.
The average of both national and outward international call prices in  March this year was around 15 percent lower than a year previously.
"The directors see significant prospects for growth in products and  services based on the capabilities of Telecom's intelligent network and modern  transmission systems," the annual review said.
"Market penetration and intensity of use of many of Telecom's products and  services, including toll calling, enhanced network services and mobile  services, are still low compared with other countries," it said.
