China was engulfed in a new dispute over  censorship of filmmakers Thursday after it emerged that it had banned a top  director from attending the premiere of his film at the Cannes festival.
The announcement that filmmaker Yin Li had been banned came only a few  days after Zhang Yimou, widely tipped as a contender for the Golden Palm,  stayed away from his premiere here in protest at Chinese censorship.
A spokesman for Yin's "The Story of Xinghua" said the director and cast  had been denied exit visas, and accused Beijing of banning them from coming to  Cannes in protest at Zhang Yimou's film, "Huozhe" (To Live).
"They're not allowed to come to the festival because China is protesting  against the festival ... basically they're just very unhappy about Zhang  Yimou's film," the spokesman said.
"The fact that it (To Live) is in Cannes, or in fact shown outside of  China, the Chinese authorities don't like it at all. So as a reaction to that  they are saying well ban other Chinese films from going to Cannes," he said.
"Xinghua" is scheduled to be screened here Sunday in the Un Certain Regard  section of the festival. The representative of the film gave no further  details of who would be present at the screening.
The film tells the story of Wanglai, a grocer who makes his fortune  selling stones stolen from the Great Wall of China. It ends tragically after a  hunt for a legendary treasure buried under the wall.
The film's spokesman said the company had had great difficulty in getting  the film out to Cannes at all, let alone its director. "We've been negotiating  for quite a while," he said, "But he's just now allowed to go.
"I suppose they're trying to teach people a lesson ... and the innnocent  fish in the pond has to suffer ... we're obviously very disappointed."
The spokesman was speaking on behalf of Beyond Films, the Australian  production company which is representing the film at the 47th Cannes  International Film Festival.
He added that a telephone press conference, with the director speaking  direct from Beijing, would be organized after a market screening of the movie  Saturday.
Festival director Gilles Jacob, contacted on the matter, said he was not  aware of it and declined any further comment. Officials in Beijing have so far  also declined to comment.
Yin Li, 36, is seen as the leader of the sixth generation of Chinese  filmmakers, following the fifth generation whose leading exponents include  Zhang and Chen Kaige, whose "Farewell to My Concubine" was joint winner of the  coveted Golden Palm last year.
The incident came after Zhang, whose film "Huozhe" (To Live) is widely  tipped to do well in the competition, announced that was not coming because  his film had not yet been authorized for screening in China.
A statement by Zhang was read out by producer Chiu Fusheng at the start of  a press conference ahead of the premiere of the movie Tuesday.
"Because my film, "To Live", has still not received its censors' visa in  China, I am unable to come to the Cannes festival. I regret this very much,"  the statement said.
The Beyond Films spokesman expressed some doubt that Zhang had stayed in  China of his own accord. "I don't know whether he was specifically banned, but  it appears that he was not given permission," he said.
He added: "It's not just a problem of one festival and one director. It's  also a matter of doing any joint ventures with China, because China is  supposed to be encouraging joint ventures and foreign investment.
"Just with Cannes, we've spent so much money .. and one word from someone  in the government and all our money is gone," he said, asking: "What happens  at the next festival?"
