Despite efforts here to punch a hole in the  American Dream, illegal emigration to the United States from southeastern  Fujian province is continuing, much of it from this coastal city.
Ling Chaoqing, an electrical worker from the small village of Banye, near  here, spent almost a year and a half in Los Angeles. "Even so, I didn't see  anything of California," he joked.
The 41-year-old father of three spent the entire time in an immigration  detention centre, after the Taiwanese freighter he had been on was intercepted  by the US Coastguard.
He was finally deported in February, despite repeated attempts to obtain a  residency permit.
"I had given 1,000 dollars to a Chinese go-between, and had promised to  pay 20,000 more in installments once I arrived," said Ling.
Since the beginning of the year, 225 Chinese like Ling have been sent back  to wealthy Fujian, the hub of Chinese illegal immigration to the United  States.
The last arrivals were on May 8, when a charter flight disgorged 100  would-be emigrants in Xiamen.
But people are still trying to get out. "We have managed to stop 277  illegals trying to leave by boat since January, but about 200 still managed to  slip through the net," said Fujian border police chief Wang Zhengping.
"Illegal emigration must be fought without mercy, because it tarnishes the  image of China and prejudices our policy of opening the country," says his  colleague Hao Zhengyu.
China arrested more than 1,000 people in 1993 on charges of illegal  emigration, and the United States sent back 2,000 Chinese who had arrived  there illegally, the most in a decade.
To check the trend, Chinese officials are counting on a new law passed in  March, which stipulates prison terms of up to two years for illegal emigrants  and the death penalty for major emigration brokers.
"We are attacking first and foremost those who organise this inhuman  trafficking of people. For emigrants, we prefer to try educating as opposed to  reprimanding them. Very few are imprisoned," said Changle police chief Lin  Jinshu.
But the authorities concede they face a difficult task. "Around here,  almost every family has at least one parent abroad, especially in America. The  temptation is great and people are willing to spend colossal amounts of  money," said the city's communist secretary, Lin Zhongxian.
But he said poverty was not the main reason the people here wanted to  leave: "Sure we have needy people, but the average income in our region has  gone up 10 times in the last 15 years. Those who leave are not in misery, they  just want more money," he said.
"I live well but over there I could make ten times more and then invest  that to get even richer," said Ling, whose sister and two brothers have lived  in Los Angeles for years: "The first legally, the second two not," he said  with a wicked grin.
"It's because they have money that I was able to leave here," he said.
For the police, it is not a matter of political persecution. "In 1993 we  issued 1,335 exit visas out of 1,924 applications, the highest proportion  ever, but that didn't stop illegal emigration from continuing," said the  Changle policeman.
Border police complain of a lack of resources in fighting the trend: "We  have just 3,000 men in the whole province who have to control 3,000 kilometres  (1,830 miles) of coastline, and we don't have enough patrol boats either,"  said Wang Zhengping.
Hao said what was needed was more international cooperation, hoping for  stricter treatment of traffickers by American authorities. "The Americans are  always talking about human rights, but why don't they hand over the big guns  they arrest," he said angrily.
Ling says he is finished with trying to escape, "but I would still like  very much to see my children get to the US," he said before adding: "But not  necessarily clandestinely."
