The ruling body of motor sport has rejected  attempts by the Grand Prix teams and drivers to modify rules changes imposed  on safety grounds for the next race, the Spanish Grand Prix on May 29.
The International Automobile Federation (FIA) said in a statement it would  consider alternative proposals for further drastic changes to the cars, set  for the June 12 Canadian and July 31 German Grands Prix.
But it warned these counter proposals must achieve "a reduction in  performance or increase in safety which equals or exceeds that of the decision  it is intended to replace."
They must also be implemented on the same dates, the FIA added.
These conditions, it said, had been added by its World Motor Sport Council  when its members were polled by fax vote to approve the new safety measures.
These were announced by FIA President Max Mosley last Friday before the  Monaco Grand Prix, in reaction to the deaths of Ayrton Senna and Roland  Ratzenburger at Imola two weeks earlier, and the serious injury to Karl  Wendlinger at Monaco last Thursday.
The teams and representatives of the drivers met in Monaco after the race,  on Monday, to form counter proposals.
There had been widespread agreement among engineers that the changes  demanded by the FIA for Spain were possible, but that the further changes  demanded would require building completely new chassis.
They said they were not sure this could be done in the time available.
The measures for Barcelona demand a reduction in aerodynamic efficiency  and thus speed through corners, of the front wings and the rear underbody.
The teams had suggested adding changes due in Canada, reducing engine  power by using pump fuel and changing the engine air intake, but delaying the  more radical further developments beyond the Canadian and German deadlines.
Leading teams belonging to the Formula One Constructors' Association met  in London on Wednesday to consider the future changes.
Formula One engine manufacturers are due to meet here on Friday, with fuel  suppliers reported to be meeting next Wednesday.
