Croatia on Monday is to circulate a new currency,  the kuna, reviving a term introduced more than half a century ago when the  country was gripped by fascism.
The kuna will replace the Croatian dinar on the day the country marks the  fourth anniversary of the overthrow of communism.
President Franjo Tudjman, who chose the controversial name, is to preside  over a mid-day ceremony at the cental bank during which circulation of the  kuna will get under way.
Tudjman has brushed aside criticism, notably from opposition forces and  the Jewish and Serbian communities in the former Yugoslav republic who view  the new currency as an affront to democratic opinion and a provocation.
In Croatian kuna means marten, whose fur -- according to historians --  served as a unit of exchange in the Middle Ages.
The term was introduced by the pro-Nazi Ustashe regime under Ante Pavlic  that ruled from 1941 to 1945.
In an interview Saturday, Tudjman noted that neither Germany nor Italy had  re-named the mark and or lira, both of which were in circulation during World  War II.
But the reappearance of the kuna can only deepen the fissures in Croatian  ruling circles at a time when the country is undergoing an acute political  crisis.
Debate in parliament has been boycotted for the past week by the nine  opposition parties, which have denounced the Tudjman administration as  dictatorial.
The president insists the deadlock has been overcome, as his ruling  nationalist party, the HDZ, maintains a comfortable parliamentary majority and  can govern without the opposition.
As the opposition intensifies its attacks, accusing him of manipulating  parliament, the courts and the press, Tudjman has struck a defiant,  authoritarian pose.
"Without Tudjman there would have been no HDZ, there would have been no  Croatia," he declared last week.
He has denounced newspapers "for writing whatever they want, which is  shameful" and courts for taking decisions "without my knowledge." He has  decreed that no more soccer clubs can use the name Dynamo, which he says  recalls the KGB.
On Monday he is also to inaugurate a massive structure, built on the  remains of a medieval fortress, that is to be known as the Altar of the  Croatian Homeland -- but denounced in the press as "vulgar" and "Pharaonic."
