Israel's public anger at PLO chairman Yasser  Arafat's call for a holy war to liberate Jerusalem is for domestic consumption  and will not damage the launch of self-rule, ministers said Tuesday.
"Nothing from Arafat will surprise those who have had contact with him,"  admitted one minister who asked not to be named. "It's all part of the  infamous Arab rhetoric.
"We know all the facets of his personality. He lives between reality and  fantasy," said the man who was born in an Arab country.
Arafat urged Moslems to launch a Jihad, during a speech in a Johannesburg  mosque on May 10, according to an audio tape broadcast by Israeli state radio.
It hit a raw nerve in Israel where a broad consensus holds Jerusalem to be  the eternal, united capital.
"You have to come and to fight and to start the Jihad to liberate  Jerusalem, your first shrine," Arafat said in apparent total contradiction  with his written pledge to end violence. "Our main battle is Jerusalem."
The appeal put the Israeli government in a terrible situation, the  minister admitted and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was furious.
"How can you do business with this man," the minister quoted Rabin as  saying.
Rabin went public immediately with a warning, announced in front of US  Secretary of State Warren Christopher, that the call placed the whole peace  process in jeopardy.
"If it is confirmed, it's a serious violation of the written commitments  and calls into question the peace process," Rabin said. "Israel will not  accept such violations and continue the process."
However the minister said Wednesday: "Despite all this it's business as  usual.
"What counts is the implementation of the autonomy agreement on the  ground. And for the moment everything is going ahead satisfactorily," he said.
"Arafat is trying to win over his people, all his people, including those  who are against the agreement," the minister explained.
And on the Israeli side, the government had to show a firm hand in public  to assuage the right and those opposed to Palestinian self-rule.
"The handover of power in Gaza and Jericho has gone very smoothly," the  minister underlined.
Culture Minister Shulamit Aloni said: "If Arafat insists with his  fantasies, the peace process could be suspended, but he will not manage to put  in it jeopardy.
"The Palestinian people want peace and the talks will continue, perhaps  with other representatives of the Palestinian leadership.
Deputy Foreign Minister Yossi Beilin dismissed Arafat's Jihad call as  "stupid" and warned they would only further harm the PLO leader's  international reputation.
"It does not indicate a change in PLO policy and will not prevent the  emergence of a new Middle East," he told state radio.
Benjamin Netanyahu, leader of the right-wing oopposition Likud Party,  demanded that the government close the PLO offices in Jerusalem and ban  leading East Jerusalem Palestinians from taking an official role in the  autonomous areas.
The PLO leader claimed he held up the May 4 signing ceremony in Cairo of  the autonomy agreement because he wanted the fate of Jerusalem included.  Arafat insisted he obtained a letter from Israel pledging to negotiate the  holy city.
Rabin riposted: "There is no such letter by me or any Israeli."
After the ceremony in Cairo, Israeli officials said Arafat had refused to  initial a map outlining the size of the Jericho enclave.
The foreign ministry contacted Palestinian leaders on Tuesday, a senior  official said.
"They explained that they too were embarrassed by Arafat's outburst," the  official said. "But they were not really any more surprised than we were."
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres would try to soften Arafat's remarks when  the two men met later Wednesday in Norway to mark Oslo's role in brokering the  autonomy deal.
"That could help Arafat make a statement more acceptable to Israeli public  opinion," the official said.
The reality remains that in the September 13 Declaration of Principles for  autonomy, Israel has committed itself to negotiating Jerusalem, refugees and  Jewish settlements as part of a final settlement.
All that is due to start after two years of autonomy, despite right-wing  refusal to acknowledge it.
