Mozambique takes the crucial first step in  preparing for multiparty elections in October when the National Elections  Commission (CNE) begins a nation-wide drive Wednesday to register some 8.5  million voters.
According to the CNE president, Brazao Mazula, his commission is ready for  the challenge of registering all Mozambicans over 18 years old by August 15.
However, peace process observers here warn thousands of people could be  left out.
The registration exercise to be carried out by 8,000 officials in 1,600  "brigades" represents not only a logistical challenge in this vast and mainly  rural country whose infrastructure was destroyed by 17 years of civil war, but  also a test of political will.
Officials of the Technical Secretariat for Elections Administration (STAE)  say a key problem is lack of transport both for the brigades to reach  far-flung rural areas and for rural populations to reach the registrars.
STAE sources also claim access to some areas held by the Mozambique  National Resistance (RENAMO) armed opposition is still problematic and local  elections commissions have not yet been established in some of these zones.
The election exercise is, controversially, to start before the CNE has  taken a final decision as to whether or not emigrants have a right to vote.
The government is in favour of giving them the vote, RENAMO is not.
Meanwhile the UN High Commissioner for Refugees is trying to pressurise  the CNE to extend the registration deadline for the hundreds of thousands of  war refugees still living outside the country, whose right to vote may  otherwise be denied.
Other citizens who could lose their vote are soldiers from both the  government and RENAMO still waiting to be demobilised, and thousands of war  displaced people still in the process of moving home.
As voter registration begins on Wednesday, the national police are set to  start their first post-war operaitons in zones controlled by RENAMO, thus  marking a leap forward in re-integration of the nation's war-divided land.
To meet a long standing demand of RENAMO leader Afonso Dhlakama, the  national police are to be supervised by civilian police observers deployed by  the United Nations.
