Senate leaders from both sides of the political  spectrum said Sunday they favored economic sanctions to force North Korea to  allow international monitoring of its nuclear program.
"I do favor sanctions against North Korea, and I believe we should make a  very determined effort to get our allies and countries in the region to join  us in these sanctions," said Senate majority leader George Mitchell, a  Democrat from Maine.
Republican Senate leader, Robert Dole of Kansas, said he hoped a way could  still be found to resolve the problem, but "faling that, I think sanctions  should be imposed."
Both senators said Washington should go ahead with sanctions despite North  Korea's threat that it would consider such action a declaration of war.
Dole said it was very important that Washington had the support of China,  which has a UN Security Council veto, in imposing sanctions on Pyongyang.
"There are a lot of foreign policy problems around the world, but this is  the most serious," Dole said of the year-old refusal by North Korea to allow  international inspections of its nuclear program, amid fears it is developing  or has developed a nuclear bomb.
"I think this is much more important than some human rights debate in  China that we want to make the human rights policy better," he added.
He was referring to President Bill Clinton's decision to link China's  privileged trading status with China with an improvement in its human rights  record.
Clinton has to make a decision by June 3, but Dole said the president  should acknowledge he had made a mistake in linking the two and drop the idea.
The North Korea issue "could lead to an international conflict and I think  it's very important to try to bring China on board," Dole said.
UN inspectors left Vienna for North Korea Sunday after Pyongyang said it  had started a controversial replacement of reactor fuel rods, the  International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said.
The agency had said the inspectors would not make the trip unless the  reclusive Stalinist state agreed to postpone the fuel rod replacement.
IAEA spokesman David Kyd warned that if refuelling had indeed started, it  would be a grave violation of agreements between the agency and North Korea.
