Bangkok's harried commuters are more  white-knuckled than usual this week, bracing against the annual migration of  more than one million students age six to 15 returning to school.
The capital's expressways and many of its streets were at a standstill at  daybreak starting Monday, as buses and cars crowded with backpack-toting  youngsters dressed in school uniforms headed for class.
The worst is yet to come. Bangkok's 1,179 public schools have until May 25  to open.
Public school enrollment embraces roughly 20 percent of Bangkok's total  population, but tens of thousands of students flock to private schools,  vocational institutions and universities.
Bangkok's traffic experts have long claimed the capital's horrendous jams,  with more than two million vehicles on the roads, owe a lot to the classroom.
The Ministry of Education's enrollment system plus the desire of parents  to find schools with good reputations sometimes force students to travel  dozens of kilometers (miles) round-trip each day, making them rise before dawn  and return home exhausted after dark.
Last December, the six-year-old son of Thai Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai  left a posh private school for a neighborhood kindergarten because, his mother  said, he was spending six hours a day in the car.
"He washed his face, brushed his teeth, got dressed and had breakfast  inside the car, or else he would arrive at school late," she told The Nation,  a local daily. He had been leaving home at 5:30 in the morning.
Such complaints are common among Thai parents who themselves must deal  with daily journeys of several hours to and from the office -- in addition to  detours required to drop the kids off at class.
Bangkok authorities last year adjusted school-starting times one hour  earlier in order to alleviate the traffic jams, but this only pushed the  traffic jams up an hour earlier too. The plan was scrapped within a month.
This year, both government and local administrations have added bus  services along routes not usually covered by public transport in hopes of  reducing the number of cars coming into the city.
The efforts have met with little success. The Bangkok Metropolitan  Administration (BMA) proudly announced a trial service of 10 extra buses for  students, but in many cases the buses had few or no takers at all for the 500  seats on offer --  a drop in the bucket in any case.
Boonchu Rojanastien, the deputy prime minister in charge of traffic, told  reporters Tuesday the government would improve the turnout for the buses by  advertising the service in brochures.
For now, it seems, most drivers will simply have to make do -- and set  their alarm clocks earlier.
