One year after millions of voters turned out  for UN-sponsored polls in Cambodia, the country is still paralyzed by civil  war and inefficient government, making many Cambodians wonder if it was all  worthwhile.
Some 90 percent of the electorate voted in Cambodia's first free elections  in three decades, seen as a major success for the United Nations, which poured  more than two billion dollars and 20,000 peacekeeping troops into the country.
But, as the election euphoria subsided, Cambodia was faced with the  realities of widespread corruption, a budget depleted by an expensive civil  war and a parliament that has yet to pass any legislation.
"During the election campaign, all the political parties promised to get  rid of corruption," said Chan Sokha, a teacher in the capital. "Now Cambodia  has a new government and national assembly, but the corruption is still there."
Another man complained that the notion of a government of national unity,  bringing together Cambodia's various warring factions, was impossible because  political parties concentrated on pushing for their own goals.
"Each party thinks of its own political interests, but not the general  interests of the people and nation," he said. "They are all desperate for  power or seats in the royal government or National Assembly."
The National Assembly, which has managed only to ratify the new  constitution and raise the salaries of its members, has been deadlocked on the  issue of whether to restore a seat to Prince Norodom Chakrapong, a move  opposed by the royalist FUNCINPEC and Buddhist Liberal Democratic parties.
As a result, vital tax, investment and criminal laws have been sidelined  as the rebel prince, a former Phnom Penh government minister, fights for the  seat he lost after leading a secessionist movement opposing the elections last  year.
Government corruption and inefficiency aside, it is Cambodia's  long-running civil war that is hurting the country's economic progress the  most, with much needed funds for development being earmarked instead for the  military.
The Khmer Rouge, who signed the 1991 Paris peace accords prior to the  polls, but boycotted the elections, have been a thorn in the side of the  government, and have only now agreed to hold peace talks in Pyongyang on May  27.
A diplomat here said the government's main mistake following the elections  last year, was to concentrate on battling the Khmer Rouge instead of  consolidating its military and political holdings and developing the economy.
He said that while the ill-trained and under-equipped government forces  over-exerted themselves in grand but short-lived offensives, the Khmer Rouge  was successfully hurting the economy with small hit-and-run attacks.
Government forces have suffered a string of embarrassing setbacks in  northwest Cambodia this year, capturing and losing Anlong Veng in less than a  month in February, and losing the Khmer Rouge capital at Pailin on April 19,  one month after it fell into government hands.
When Cambodians flocked to the polls on May 23, 1993, they were voting for  better living standards, peace and economic development for a country wracked  by years of war.
But, as one Phnom Penh man remarked, nothing much has changed in the past  year.
"The former and present regime in Cambodia are the same because they are  corrupt and partisan. They don't care about the living standards of the  people," he said.
