Almost exactly a year after "The Piano" put  Australia on top of the filmgoing world with a share in the Golden Palm, the  country is again bidding to call the tune at the Cannes film festival.
And even without a film in the main competition, it must be said that the  antipodean contingent at this year's filmfest is definitely managing to hit at  least some of the right notes.
"It's hard: 'The Piano' was one of those films that comes from someone in  full stride as a creator .. thats a very hard expectation to live up to," says  Sue Murray of the Australian Film Commision.
"But this year I think we have a wider variety of films ... We can't win  the Palme D'Or again, but what I think is important this year is that there  are a lot more films that are designed for a more general audience."
Fittingly perhaps, Australia's star attraction this year is a musical, the  bravely-named "The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert" by  writer-director Stephan Elliott.
Given its premiere in a midnight screening at the weekend the film, a kind  of transvestite road movie musical, proved an instant hit with the public,  earning an early-hours five minute standing ovation.
Almost before the screening was over, the talk was of a repetition of the  success of Baz Luhrmann's "Strictly Ballroom," an Aussie movie screened out of  competition here two years ago which went on to huge worldwide success.
Industry sources predict strong market potential for the film. "The  midnight screening at Cannes is an ideal springboard or international  attention," said one.
Also tipped for greater things is "Muriel's Wedding", a debut feature by  P.J. Hogan in the Directors' Fortnight section of the 47th Cannes  International Film Festival.
The movie tells the story of Muriel and her aspirations to escape from  suburban anonymity by marrying a prince charming -- an old theme, but treated  with touching wit.
Market potential for the movie is as yet untested: the film was only just  finished in time for Cannes, with the Directors Fortnight screening being the  first time the filmmakers had seen their work with an audience.
But Murray is enthusiastic about both the festival entry films. "The two in  the official selection are entertaining, lively, brash, very Australian type  films," she says.
"It's impossible to repeat history, but we have every reason to feel  confident this year ... And we must remember that many films are made to  entertain, not to thrive solely on awards."
She insists that other movies are also doing well. "I think its a stronger  line up (than last year) ... stronger across the board," she says.
In all there are 15 Australian features and one short on offer in Cannes,  of which two features and the short are in the official festival selection,  the rest in market screenings.
One much-talked about film due for market screening is "Rough Diamonds,"  not least because it stars actor-singer Jason Donovan, a teenage heart-throb.
Last year Australia came to the Croisette knowing that it had a star in  its midst. Jane Campion's "The Piano" by all accounts had won the competition  for the Palm even before the first midway point of the festival.
This year things are clearly different.
But Murray insists the mood is far from one of anti-climax. "Of course  comparisons have to be made, but frankly I don't for a minute think this is an  inferior year," she says.
"I thought that I might, I thought it'll be a little more low key," she  concedes, but adds: "I don't feel disappointed."
mt/ms
e2126 18Mai94
