Bakili Muluzi was sworn in Saturday as Malawi's  first democraticaly-elected president, telling the 80,000 people attending his  colourful inauguration ceremony that he had ordered all political prisoners  released.
Muluzi arrived in the main stadium here in a Rolls Royce, escorted by a  motorcade, to be sworn in along with his deputy, Justin Malewezi, by Chief  Justice Richard Banda.
Muluzi, a Moslem, took the oath of office on the Koran in front of the  tens of thousands of people, mainly supporters of his Malawi Democratic Front  (UDF).
In his acceptance speech Muluzi said he had ordered the closure of  Malawi's notorious prisons and detention camps, including Mikuyu, Dzeleka and  Nsanje, and the immediate release of all political prisoners.
"These are prisons which were closely associated with the Malawi Congress  Party's government abuse of human rights," he said, referring to the former  ruling party headed by his predecessor Hastings Kamuzu Banda.
Without naming the political prisoners, he said "I understand there are  still some political prisoners."
Announcing the commutation of all death sentences to life imprisonment,  Muluzi said some prisoners had been wrongly convicted "due to the serious  faults of our traditional courts."
And he said one of Malawi's famous state houses in the capital Lilongwe,  built by Banda at an estimated cost of 200 million Malawi Kwacha (18 million  US dollars), would be turned into a parliament house, immediately.
"There are far too many state residences which the president does not  need," he said.
A committe is to be set up to examine how best to dispose of the remaining  13 palaces dotted throughout the country.
In his inauguration speech Muluzi thanked the country's Roman Catholic  bishops for "starting Malawi's democratisation process," referring to the  controversial pastoral letter written by seven Catholic bishops in March 1992.
The letter was the first document in the country to publicly criticise  Banda's 30-year old autocratic rule and the social and economic disparities  the government had caused.
"Your job continues. Do not hesitate to criticise us," the president said.
Reading from a prepared English text Muluzi said Malawians had freed  themselves from the yoke of injustice and corruption of the past regime.
The new government promised to uphold true democracy and guarantee genuine  freedom of expression, worship and of the press.
He said his government was committed to alleviating poverty for all  Malawians "and not just for a few families."
"This country is poor and my government will not condone corruption," he  said.
He appealed to all political parties to work together towards developing  Malawi. "Let us put our past behind us," he said, preaching reconciliation,  "we are all Malawians. We should respect each other. We are in a new culture  of tolerance."
He pledged to reform the country's 105,000-strong civil service, saying  Malawi needed a dedicated civil service to spur development.
"Morale is low in the civil service, we will be looking into that problem  as soon as possible," he said.
