Russia, the United States and western Europe united  Friday in a new bid for peace in Bosnia-Hercegovina amid political rumblings  back home over the failure of their sanctions, arms embargo and peace troops  policies to date.
A threat by France, provider of the biggest UN troop contingent, to  withdraw its men should prospects for a solution remain out of sight coincided  with a US Senate move to lift the embargo on arms for the Moslem Bosnians and  a Russian parliament call to abandon sanctions against Serbia.
The combination spurred the seven states plus a European Commission  representative, meeting at foreign minister level in Geneva, to put the peace  process back on track after weeks of drift amid the danger of international  escalation.
A major aspect of the joint declaration arrived at after six hours of  talks is that it holds out the prospect of a "phased suspension" of the United  Nations sanctions against Serbia in return for implementation in good faith of  a negotiated settlement.
The United States had hitherto tended toward a toughening of sanctions  against the regime in Belgrade, while the Russian government has been lukewarm  on them, for reasons that Friday's vote in Moscow showed. The hint is a clear  incentive to the Serbs.
The Europeans can also gain satisfaction from the US acceptance of their  plan to give 51 percent of Bosnia-Hercegovina to the Bosnian Croats and  Moslems and 49 percent to the Serbs, as the mainly-Moslem government in  Sarajevo had shown in recent weeks it wanted Washington's support for a bigger  share.
The united call for a four-month extendable ceasefire and peace  negotiations within two weeks comes amid a reiteration of the oft-stated  principle that there must be a negotiated political, and not a  militarily-imposed, settlement, with a comprehensive cessation of hostilities.
The form of the ceasefire is also spelled out, and gives the United  Nations troops on the ground a clear role as a force of interposition, rather  than one limited to protecting humanitarian convoys and the so-called safe  areas as at present.
"The agreement on cessation of hostilities must include the separation of  forces, the withdrawal of heavy weapons and the interposition of UNPROFOR (UN  Protection Force) troops," the communique says, adding that this means beefing  rather than withdrawing UN troops.
"To complete its task in the safe areas and in support of the cessation of  hostilities, UNPROFOR will need further reinforcement," it said.
But apart from the tough task the so-called contact group of states has in  trying to get the negotiations restarted, it is a secret for no one that the  western countries which have provided UN troops for Bosnia so far will not  want to provide any more given present public opinion.
On the other hand a meeting in Geneva this same Friday of representatives  of the 51-state Organization of Islamic Conference, while complaining at being  left out of the big-power talks on Bosnia, issued a reminder that its member  have offered to furnish adequate forces should other states withdraw theirs.
