Two heavy artillery shells hit a  residential area of the mainly Moslem industrial town of Tuzla on Monday,  causing panic as residents fled the streets, witnesses said.
Meanwhile in Belgrade, Russian special envoy to former Yugoslavia Vitaly  Churkin emerged from a meeting with Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic to  say he would "very soon" recommend to UN special envoy Yasushi Akashi a  meeting of the warring parties to negotiate an end to the Bosnian fighting.
Churkin, quoted by the Belgrade news agency Tanjug, said Milosevic  supported last Friday's Geneva statement on Bosnia by representatives of the  European Union, the United States and Russia, calling notably for a four-month  ceasefire to allow fresh negotiations.
The shells crashed in mid-afternoon not far from the town's hotel, which  had been hit Sunday night by a large-calibre shell, and left two craters in a  children's play area.
Residents of the town immediately fled the streets, bathed in early summer  sunshine, to take shelter, dragging their children away from play. No injuries  were reported.
It was the third day in succession the northeastern Bosnian town had been  shelled, apparently from Serb positions some four kilometres (2.5 miles) to  the north east.
Last Wednesday two people were killed and four injured in two waves of  shelling, prompting local authorities to close schools. A decision was to be  made later Monday on when to reopen them.
Earlier, UN protection Force (UNPROFOR) officials said in Sarajevo that  three pieces of heavy weaponry had been sighted by UN military observers in a  Serb-controlled neighbourhood in downtown Sarajevo.
The presence of the weapons -- two mortar guns and an anti-aircraft canon  -- violates the 20-kilometre (12-mile) exclusion zone barring heavy weapons  around the Bosnian capital and which the UN imposed in February.
UNPROFOR spokesman Rob Annink said the two mortar guns were spotted Sunday  in Grbavica. Another UN military source who requested anonymity said the  anti-aircraft gun was also found in the same neighborhood.
Annink said negotiations were under way to transport the weapons to a  collection centre.
A military source said the Serbs were claiming the weapons had been  neutralized, but added the claim was baseless as the Serbs had only removed  the firing pins "which could be reinstalled in two minutes."
The latest finds came after the Serbs managed to sneak a tank into  Grbavica earlier this month. The tank, a T-34, disappeared while being  transported on a truck from Bosnian Serb headquarters at Pale.
In a separate development, Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev said a  French warning on pulling its troops out of Bosnia if the bloodletting in  Bosnia did not stop soon "is difficult to disagree with," ITAR-TASS reported.
The minister also said a "war of parliaments" would be highly undesirable.  He was referring to a vote by the US Senate to lift the arms embargo against  Bosnia, and a vote by the Moscow parliament calling for Russia to ignore  international sanctions against rump Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro).
