The government in Sanaa has begun a dialogue with  senior officials in the southern Yemen Socialist Party (YSP) in a bid to  achieve a political solution to the conflict in Yemen, Planning Minister  Abdelkarim al-Iryani said Wednesday.
Speaking to reporters in Sanaa, Iryani said contacts were being made  through Mujahid Yahya Abu Shuwarib, a deputy prime minister and leader of the  Hashed tribe.
"We are ready for dialogue with leaders from the YSP who believe in  unity," Iryani said.
But he ruled out any negotiation with President Ali Abdallah Saleh's rival  Ali Salem al-Baid and former Prime Minister Haidar Abubakr al-Attas, whom he  described as "the engineer of the conflict."
Saleh's General People's Congress Party (GPC) had formed a committee to  pursue the contacts, Iryani said.
He said the GPC was dealing with such YSP leaders as Salem Saleh Muhammad,  a member of the presidential council who is currently in London, and YSP  central committee member Yasin Said Numan.
"Salem Saleh is the main contact," he added.
The government was ready for a ceasefire provided YSP leaders recognised  Yemeni unity and "the legitimate authority," Iryani said.
Saleh's forces have been at war with southern troops loyal to Baid since  May 5.
Iryani said Baid's forces were still receiving arms supplies through the  southern port city of Mukalla and the nearby airstrip at Rayyan.
"The source is known -- it's the former socialist countries," he said,  naming the suppliers as Ukraine, Bulgaria, Hungary and "probably" Russia.
Asked whether the Sanaa authorities would approach the former socialist  bloc for weapons, Iryani said "the materiel we received from our friends is  much more than we need, I think."
He said no decision had been taken "to simply start bombarding" Aden.
"We want to give a political solution a chance before we enter Aden,"  Iryani explained.
President Saleh told reporters Saturday that Baid, who had remained in  Aden since last August, had now gone to his birthplace Mukalla, capital of the  Hadhramaut region.
"You cannot decide you are going to Aden unless you completely control  Lahej," Iryani said, referring to the region just north of the southern port  city.
He said the main fighting "has already been done" in Lahej, "and it's now  just a clean-up."
The air force's role would now be limited to attacking southern gunboats,  "and in a few days, maybe, to hit Mukalla and Rayyan."
"We have to extend legitimacy to Hadhramaut."
Saleh's forces were now in the Al-Husseini area south of Al-Hutah and  about 60 kilometres (37 miles) from Aden, Iryani said.
