King Hussein of Jordan held talks Friday with  President Hafez al-Assad on the Middle East peace process, as the Syrian media  said a shuttle mission by US Secretary of State Warren Christopher had failed.
A Syrian presidential spokesman said the two leaders discussed "the  obstacles put up by Israel to a fair and global peace."
They were meeting two days after Christopher ended his second peace  shuttle in two weeks between Israel and Syria in a bid to broker an accord.
Assad briefed the king on his talks with Christopher on Wednesday.
But the official daily Al-Thawra said it had been "forseen that the  Secretary of State would end his tour without any notable results and would  return empty-handed to Washington."
The paper blamed Israel for the current impasse in the bilateral talks and  the failure of the US efforts.
It stressed the importance of a total Israeli withdrawal from the lands it  occupied in the 1967 war "leaving no trace of the military presence or the  Jewish settlements."
Al-Baath, the paper of the ruling Baath party, said the return of the  strategic Golan Heights seized in 1967 and then annexed in 1981 was "an  unavoidable condition for peace."
It said "the military's arrogance and its racist perceptions still persist  in Israel."
The heights have remained the main stumbling block to relaunching stalled  peace talks between the two countries.
A senior official at the Israeli foreign ministry said late Thursday that  Christopher was expected to return to the Middle East around June 12.
Israel has offered a phased withdrawal from the key plateau, while Syria  is demanding a prior commitment to a total withdrawal before it will commit  itself to peace with its arch enemy.
Following Christopher's visit presidential spokesman Gebran Kurieh said  there were wide differences between the two.
Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara has accused Israel of not wanting to  withdraw from all the occupied Arab lands, saying its peace proposals would  not help make progress.
Assad and Hussein agreed to continue their contacts and to coordinate with  other Arab countries involved in the peace process to reach a global solution.
The two leaders also expressed their "deep regret" at the civil war in  Yemen which broke out on May 5 and called on rival north and south troops to  "solve their differences through dialogue."
