Natural rubber producers and consumers are  likely to end their protracted argument and wrap up a new global pact at the  second round of talks in Geneva in October, a UN negotiator said here Thursday.
"We are condemned to succeed. Chances are good we will wrap up the  negotiations in October," said Peter Lai, president of the UN Conference on  Natural Rubber.
Malaysian-born Lai, a veteran and seasoned negotiator in international  commodity pacts, was picked to chair negotiations under the auspices of the UN  Conference on Trade and Development at the first round of talks among 26  producers and consumers in Geneva last month.
The International Natural Rubber Organisation (INRO), which groups the  world's six leading natural rubber producers and 20 major consumers, including  the United States, European Union and Japan, is finalising a successor pact  for a 14-year-old price pact that expired in December 1993.
INRA 1987, which succeeded a 1979 pact, has been extended for a year  pending the conclusion of the new agreement.
"We need to have a new accord adopted at the end of the year to give  governments time to ratify the agreement," said Lai, who is in Kuala Lumpur to  hold informal talks with delegates attending INRO's five-day semi-annual  council session.
INRO will have to select at the end of their meeting Friday a successor  from among six nominees proposed by the United States and the European Union  to INRO buffer stock manager, Aldo Hofmeister.
The 71-year-old Illinois-born Hofmeister is retiring on July 4.
Officials said the existing pact might have to be extended to facilitate  the ratification of the new INRA, even if producers protested.
INRA is the only international commodity agreement with economic  provisions, which guide the INRO buffer stock manager's market intervention to  stabilise prices.
Producers have sought to end the discretionary powers of the buffer stock  manager by proposing changes to the intervention price mechanism in the new  pact but consumers have strongly rejected the move, preferring a status-guo in  the provisions even in the new agreement.
"That is the main stumbling block. Producers have been hurt long enough  (by rubber's low prices) and are seeking the changes that will allow earlier  intervention to more effectively arrest price declines," an analyst said.
Rubber prices have declined by an average of 30 percent since 1987,  officials said.
Lai appeared optimistic that the differences could be narrowed after his  informal talks here.
"Both sides are talking seriously about trying to help me find the  solutions," Lai said.
"The two sides (producers and consumers) have cooperated fairly  successfully throughout the life span of the two INRAs. It will be sad if this  cooperation cannot continue," Lai said.
