More than 100 people have been  killed in the past two weeks in clashes between the two main Kurdish groups  which have split northern Iraq, leaders from both sides said.
The fighting between the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK of Jalal  Talabani) and the Democratic Party of Kurdistan (DPK of Massud Barzani) ended  early this week, they said.
The DPK has taken the control of the northwestern of Kurdistan around the  town of Dahuk, while the PUK had seized the southeast, around Sulaymaniyah, an  AFP correspondant said.
The two groups share with the Iraqi National Congress (INC) the province  of Arbil in the middle of the Kurdish-controlled area of northern Iraq.
The INC, which says it represents all the Kurdish and Arab factions  opposed to Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, brokered a ceasefire agreement on  Sunday. It is based in Salaheddin near Arbil.
The fighting erupted after a private quarrel, the PUK said.
The only clause of the ceasefire so far implemented provides for INC  militiamen to control checkpoints in the Arbil province, along with equal  numbers of PUK and DPK fighters.
INC official Kanaan Makkiya told AFP Moslem Shiite fighters from southern  Iraq were chosen to be deployed on the checkpoints.
The two remaining clauses of the May 8 agreement, that have not been yet  implemented, provide for prisoner exchanges and the handing back of captured  offices.
Makkiya said the PDK has given the INC, which is to supervise the  prisoners exchange, a list of 93 people were being held by the PUK.
A DPK official denied his group attacked the PUK in Dahuk. "We only  surrounded their offices to force them to surrender peacefully," he told AFP.
PUK spokesman Mohammad Tufic said his faction "has taken over" the DPK  offices in Sulaymaniyah only after its own offices in Dahuk were attacked.
Most of the casualties followed the PUK assault on Qalat Dizza and Raniya,  near the Iranian border, on May 2, sources from both parties said. Twelve were  killed in Sulaymaniyah and 12 in Salaheddin.
The official Iranian news agency IRNA reported on Monday that 2,800 were  killed in the fighting.
