Vietnam and the United States have ironed out some  of the problems still separating the former enemies but domestic pressures on  Washington over missing servicemen and a wide gap on human rights could delay  further rapprochement.
The two sides announced an agreement Thursday to exchange liaison offices  -- or what a diplomat here called "embassies in everything but name" --   following several months of talks.
Diplomats from the United States are not expected arrive for several  months as accommodation, communications and the handover of former diplomatic  buildings still needs to be worked out, sources here said. Full relations are  expected to be some time off.
"They're not going to open liaison offices only to turn them into full  embassies a few months later," a western diplomat said. "No one can say when  it will happen but it could take a few years."
But diplomats also say that China's growing role in the region and Hanoi's  eagerness to join the Association of Southeast Asian Nations could force  Washington's hand as it aims to build up both Vietnam and ASEAN to  counterbalance Beijing.
Winston Lord, US assistant secretary of state for Asia-Pacific affairs,  has spoken of the importance of normalising ties with Vietnam for the sake of  overall US policy in the region and Washington has publicly backed Vietnam's  ASEAN ambitions.
In a statement announcing agreement on the liaison offices, Vietnam  acknowleged that "issues of common concern" remained to be resolved, which  diplomats here said were principally human rights and the 2,234 US service  personnel still listed as missing in action (MIA).
Lord cited MIAs in a letter to the Vietnamese government as one of the  "many technical and substantive issues that will have to be resolved before  full normalisation of relations can be realized."
"The MIA issues shouldn't be a huge obstacle. This is an internal American  problem and they cannot deny Vietnamese cooperation now," the diplomat said.
But many US veterans and members of congress are arguing strongly that  relations cannot be normalised until Vietnam accounts for the missing soldiers  -- a task many people believe is impossible.
Similar domestic pressures from a pro-Taiwan lobby held up the  normalisation of relations with China until 1979, six years after the opening  of liaison offices.
US and Vietnamese officials opened talks in New York in March on human  rights but while the discussions were described as "cordial," they are not  believed to have closed any ground.
"Both sides have a completely different view on human rights and in the  near future nothing is going to change on either side," the diplomat said.
Hanoi has come under pressure from overseas human rights monitors and  Buddhist groups over its treatment of political prisoners and dissident monks,  while the State Department gave the country a mixed review in its annual  report on the issue.
Assets worth more than 500 million dollars need to be freed by both sides  after being frozen at the end of the Vietnam war in 1975 but officials here  expect the issue to be resolved soon.
While political ties have remained frosty, US firms have been rushing back  to Vietnam, investing 20 million dollars since a trade embargo was lifted in  February.
