A death row inmate wants the world  to see his execution as he fights a warden's order banning his death being   broadcast on national television.
The televising of his death will bring meaning to his life, said convicted  killer David Lawson.
It will also draw attention to the chronic depression he claims led hi8m  to kill.
State officials said televising the death will make a spectacle of what  should be regarded a somber event. A state supreme court judge is expected to  rule on the issue shortly.
Lawson is slated for death on June 15. He was convicted of murder when he  shot a man during 1980 home break-in.
Execution in North Carolina is by gas or lethal injection. North Carolina  has executed five people since resuming the death penalty in 1984, all by  injection. Lawson has until five days before his execution to decide which  method he wants.
North Carolina bars cameras at executions, but allows five reporters,  including one from television, to witness the deaths.
The event reopens debate on the issue. National talk show host Phil  Donohue has joined Lawson in his request to the North Carolina Supreme Court  to overturn the ban.
Attempts in 1991 by a California television station to show the  gas-chamber death of an inmate failed when a judge ruled against the broadcast  and ordered tapes of the death destroyed.
"It would only satisfy the thirst for vengeance that is unwarranted," said  George Gerbner, dean emeritus of the Annenberg School of Communications at the  University of Pennsylvania.
"It's a ghoulish spectacle that's bound to have a brutalizing,  desensitizing effect on a public already jaded by images of violence," he  added.
Secretary of Correction Franklin Freeman said the execution "should not be  turned into a circus."
He said the events surrounding the execution of serial killer John Wayne  Gacy on Tuesday in Illinois demonstrate his point. People waited outside  Gacy's prison in a festive atmosphere, with vendors selling T-shirts saying  "No Tears for the Clown."
Gacy, a building contractor who often entertained at parties dressed as a  clown, was executed for murdering 33 young men and boys during the 1970s.
"The conduct certain people exhibited there is an example of the kind of  conduct that would be inspired by public broadcast of executions," said  Freeman.
