The conflicting security demands of Russia and  eastern Europe have forced NATO into a difficult balancing act for the visit  here Tuesday of Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev.
The Russian general has said he will present Moscow's terms for joining  NATO's partnership-for-peace programme of military cooperation with the  countries of the former Soviet bloc.
The Russians have been asking for a special political relationship with  the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation that goes beyond the military links on  offer in the partnership and reflects Moscow's big-power status.
NATO was groping last week for a formula that would satisfy this demand  without making eastern European countries fear that Russia was being given a  privileged role in western decision-making on Europe.
One NATO diplomat said: "We have to approach talks with Russia with great  caution because of the high sensitivity of the Poles and Hungarians amongst  others. But we also want to keep supporting (Russian President Boris) Yeltsin."
Speaking under their usual cloak of anonymity, NATO diplomats and  officials agreed last week that Moscow should be offered an "intensified  dialogue" beyond partnership-for-peace, but no special or strategic  relationship.
This meant, they said, that Russia would have no special influence or veto  rights over NATO decision-making, particularly concerning the former Soviet  satellites which are anxious to strengthen their security ties with the west.
The partnership, launched in January, gives any single member from the  former Soviet bloc the right for direct consultations with NATO if its "vital  interests" are threatened.
NATO diplomats, reacting to eastern European disquiet, have been at pains  to stress that if Poland, for example, called for such consultations, Russia  would not be involved.
The alliance has agreed that Russia should be offered an "intensified  dialogue" restricted initially to such issues as nuclear non-proliferation and  peace-keeping in the former Soviet republics, the diplomats said.
Other suitable topics would include the Bosnian conflict, arms exports and  helping Russia turn its weapons factories to civilian use.
But no list has been defined and there is disagreement among NATO  countries whether to put anything on paper, even a vague declaration on  intensified dialogue with Russia.
It is not clear whether any of this will be enough for Yeltsin who, with  an eye to opposition at home, is said to be anxious to show that Russia is  taken seriously by NATO as a superpower with special political weight.
"Russia wants political cooperation, but the west wants military  integration," one diplomat said.
As US officials tell it, partnership-for-peace was conceived as a way of  strengthening international security by bringing the military of the former  Soviet bloc countries into a web of relationships with NATO.
"The operative word is transparency, confidence-building. We're trying to  get things into the open so that, unlike the 19th Century, we will not have  people playing hidden tricks on each other," one diplomat said.
He added that the aim was a climate of confidence that would eventually  overcome Russian opposition to full NATO membership for countries such as  Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
At Tuesday's meeting of NATO defence ministers, Grachev is also due to  explain Russia's new, long-awaited military doctrine for the post-Cold War  era, particularly as it relates to the countries of the former Soviet bloc.
gb
