Six children were injured when a shell hit and  badly damaged an orphanage during overnight fighting between Rwandan rebels  and government forces in Kigali, a UN spokesman said Sunday.
The orphanage, run by a Frenchman who refused to leave when foreigners  evacuated last month, was demolished in the attack, forcing the transfer of  120 orphans to another building, spokesman Abdul Kabia said, contacted by  telephone from Nairobi.
UN military sources said the shell was possibly fired from rebel position  in the city.
Kigali was calm Sunday morning after a night of sporadic artillery battles  between the mainly Tutsi Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) and forces loyal to the   government.
RPF fighters maintained their advance west and southwards from Kigali  towards the town of Gitarama, where the self-styled governement is based.  Gitarama is 40 kilometres (25 miles), southwest of the capital.
Heavy fighting continued to rage around the northern town of Ruhengeri,  Kabia said.
UN-sponsored ceasefire talks between rebels and the Rwandan armed forces   will open in Kigali on Monday, Kabia said.
Meanwhile, some 35,000 displaced people in Kigali were on the verge of  starvation because no relief supplies have arrived in the city during the past  couple of days, Kabia said.
"The situation is so desperate that UN troops have been forced to share  their rations of food and water with the most needy women and children," Kabia  said.
"I presume the situation is worse outside Kigali," he added.
Kabia appealed to international relief agencies to send in food.
The UN World Food Programme said on Saturday that there were an estimated  1.6 million displaced people in desparate need of food aid inside Rwanda.
Rwanda plunged back into turmoil a day after President Juvenal Habyarimana  was killed in an alleged attack on his plane on April 6.
An estimated half a million people have been killed in the ensuing  wholesale slaughter, mainly pitting Habyarimana's majority Hutu tribe against  minority Tutsis.
The RPF launched an offensive against government troops and Hutu militia  in an attempt to stop the massacres and grab power from the Hutu-domianted  government.
