The Iranian-backed Hezbollah called for a  nationwide front to combat Israeli "terrorism" after the abduction of a Moslem  fundamentalist guerrilla chief in a pre-dawn Israeli raid on Saturday.
"This crime shows there is no safe place in Lebanon. The Zionist danger  threatens us all," Hezbollah said.
"From now on, we have to consider all Lebanese regions to be zones of  confrontation, where the people will always resist the Jewish danger," said  the Shiite Moslem fundamentalist group.
"All Lebanese must be on a permanent state of alert to confront the  terrorist action of the enemy."
Israeli helicopter-borne commandos earlier stormed Mustafa Dirani's home  in the Syrian-controlled Bekaa Valley of eastern Lebanon and snatched him in a  10-minute, bloodless operation.
Dirani, who heads the Shiite "Resistance of the Faithful" that has close  ties to Hezbollah, is accused by Israel of having captured missing Israeli  airman Ron Arad when his plane was shot down over Lebanon in 1986.
Hezbollah said Dirani's abduction "proves once again that our nation has  no other choice but armed resistance."
"We must adopt this measure and forge the largest possible front against  the occupation of our land and the terrorism aimed against our people," the  group said in a statement.
Earlier, Hezbollah said the abduction "will not deter us from continuing  to liberate our land whatever the cost."
Hezbollah spearheads attacks on an Israeli-occupied "security zone" in  southern Lebanon. The zone is held jointly by Israeli troops and local militia  allies.
In Beirut's Shiite southern suburbs and the Bekaa town of Baalbeck,  Hezbollah has toned down its military presence after Lebanese authorities  decided to arrest armed militants who took part in a demonstration.
Hezbollah is the only Lebanese group which has not been disarmed since the  end of Lebanon's 1975-1990 war. The government recognises its right to  "resist" occupation in the south but has warned against a military presence  elsewhere.
Dirani's movement is one of several factions to claim attacks on the  security zone.
