The United States ruled out Wednesday the  possibility of China's rejoining the world trade body by year-end because of  Beijing's demanding schedule to honour obligations required by membership.
"It is tough for anybody to do the amount of work that has to be done in  the little time that is left (between now and year-end)," deputy US trade  representative Booth Gardne told reporters here.
China, which was a founding member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and  Trade (GATT) but left after the communists came to power in 1949, has made it  clear that it attaches great political significance to being readmitted prior  to the inception of the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
The WTO will on January 1 replace the Geneva-based GATT, which has  operated on an interim basis since 1947.
The deadline for China was even tighter as GATT negotiating parties would  have to reach a substantive protocol agreement on its re-entry by June in  order to have any hope of inducting the most populous nation before the new  year, GATT officials say.
They say doubts remained over the transparency of China's foreign trade  regime, especially its policies governing import quotas, licences and  standards.
"We have been clear in laying out what we feel are standards that have to  be met by China," Gardner said after speaking at the 27th Pacific Basin  Economic Council international general meeting here.
He said the standards were not imposed unilaterally by the United States  but agreed upon by all the developed nations.
"We support China's accession on the basis of China's willingness to enter  the GATT on the terms of GATT. Where China's trade regime is not consistent  with the GATT, it must change," Gardner said.
"We will all benefit -- and the Chinese people and the Chinese economy  will benefit -- if China participates based on the same rules as everyone  else."
GATT chief Peter Sutherland, speaking at a separate news conference, said  China's re-entry by January 1 "may be possible but is an extremely difficult  prospect."
China had to convince the negotiating parties that it had transparent and  uniform laws and policies pertaining to the operations of state trading  companies and issues such as tariff and non-tariff barriers, including quotas  and licensing standards, he said.
"It is a very demanding issue. I think it is true to say that the WTO  without China as part of it is less than a complete organisation, but the  contracting parties have legitimate and serious demands which have to be  recognised by China," Sutherland said.
According to OECD data, China would be the biggest single nation to profit  from the GATT deal to the tune of 37 billion dollars a year from 2002.
Responding to questions, Sutherland said the WTO would not infringe on  national sovereignty in efforts to settle trade disputes.
"If the WTO were to institute retaliatory measures against any country, it  would do so after reaching consensus and after having established that the  country in question has actually violated rules of free trade," he said.
