A UN plane made two safe flights  in and out of Tuzla airport Thursday, flying the first humanitarian mission to  the northern Moslem enclave since the reopening of the airport in March, UN  officials said.
NATO stepped up air cover of the airport, with an AC-130 Spectre hovering  above the airport in the morning and several fighter planes flying over at low  altitude, particularly during unloading of the white Ilyushin 76 transport  plane.
It landed two days after Bosnian Serb artillery shelled the airport when  another UN plane landed there, UN spokesmen said.
Earlier Thursday, Danish Defence Minister Hans Haekkerup said in  Copenhagen that his country had protested to the United Nations about a  refusal to provide close air support for the Nordic battalion under attack by  Serbs at the airport.
Ritzau news agency said the minister, fired by Tuesday's latest incident,  complained about "excuses and reservations" among the UN Protection Force  command in Bosnia which he said had occurred many times in recent months.
"It is not for the fun of it that the Danish commanding officer on the  ground asks for NATO planes to intervene," Haekkerup said. "He is within his  rights to have that backing when the life of his soldiers is in danger."
The first plane Thursday's brought in material and equipment -- including  radar -- for the UN Protection Force in Tuzla, a UN-declared safe area.
On its second trip out of Tuzla the plane evacuated five people needing  medical treatment, accompanied by nine members of their families, on behalf of  the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
It was the first time since the solemn reopening of the airport by special  UN envoy Yasushi Akashi that a UN humanitarian mission has taken place at the  airport.
UNHCR spokeswoman Radna Vikoren said the agency hoped "security conditions  will allow the airport to be used again."
A third flight was expected to take place later in the day.
The flight Tuesday had been the first into the airport since April 14. But  it took off abruptly after eight Serb artillery shells thudded in after it set  down on the runway, although there was no damage.
The United Nations said there were no problems Thursday and no Serb  artillery fire when the Ilyushin 76 made two successful trips in and out of  the airport, on a circuit from Split to Tuzla to the Croatian capital Zagreb  then again through Tuzla before heading back to Split.
The mainly Moslem Bosnian army handed over control of the airport to the  UNPROFOR on March 22.
Twenty-two flights carrying equipment for UN forces stationed here landed  at the airport through April 14, but no humanitarian flights have yet arrived.
