UN troops evacuated 480 civilians from the  rebel-besieged Rwandan capital Kigali on Friday in a bid to save them from the  civil war and ethnic slaughter among Tutsis and Hutus, a UN spokesman said.
Members of both the Tutsi and the Hutus tribes trapped in Kigali for  several weeks were transferred in different convoys from areas controlled by  rebel  Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and those under government forces,  spokesman Abdul Kabia said, contacted by telephone from Nairobi.
Among the evacuees were 240 Tutsis who have been holed up for several  weeks in the Mille Collines Hotel and 240 Hutus who sought refuge at the  Amahoro stadium.
The Tutsis were taken to RPF-controlled areas to the east of Kigali, and  the Hutus opted to go to the governmment-controlled Runda region, several  kilometres (miles) south of the capital.
The operation was briefly held up because of shelling and gunfire in  several areas of the city, but the UN convoys did not come under direct fire,  Kabia said.
More than 300 displaced people were left behind in the hotel because of  lack of space in the UN vehicles and others said they wanted to leave the  country.
Kabia said the UN intended to evacuate more people on Saturday, depending  on the security situation in the city.
An attempt to move the refugees from the hotel three weeks ago was  abandoned after Hutu militias attacked a UN convoy, injuring several people.
RPF fighters have kept up their push against battle-weary government  soldiers who have started fleeing the capital.
Kigali was relatively calm Friday afternoon with both sides trading  occasional mortar shells after fierce fighting overnight, Kabia said.
The death of president Juvenal Habyarimana in an alleged April 6 rocket  attack on his plane unleashed a tide of tribal bloodletting in which 200,000  to half a million Rwandans have been killed.
Many of the victims came from the Tutsi minority or were moderate members  of the majority Hutu tribe, slain by extremist Hutu militias.
Hutu militiamen abandoned several positions in Kigali as rebels pressed  ahead with their final onslaught overnight and early Friday. Soldiers took  over several checkpoints from the militias to try and hold them against a  barrage of mortar and artillery fire from advancing Tutsi-led rebels, Kabia  said.
Leaders of the RPF on Thursday bowed to pressure from the United Nations  and agreed to open ceasefire talks with army commanders in Kigali on Monday,  Kabia said earlier Friday.
UN military sources meanwhile said a rebel victory in Kigali was "only a  few days away."
Outside the capital, the RPF claimed in a radio broadcast to have captured  the key market town of Ruhango, tightening the noose around nearby Gitarama  where the self-proclaimed Hutu government fled last month as carnage engulfed  the capital.
UN officials could not confirm the fall of Ruhango, 50 kilometres (30  miles) south of Kigali.
Diplomats and UN military sources welcomed the rebel agreement to discuss  a ceasefire with the army, but cautioned that the talks may come after the  fall of Kigali and the battered and demoralised government forces could be  forced to surrender.
"They're short of ammunition, their morale is low, their government has  run away to a town outside the capital, and they're scared of taking the blame  for the massacres," a UN military source in Kigali said.
A rebel commander will meet an army brigadier in Kigali on Monday at a  UN-mediated meeting.
But the rebels refuse to talk to the "clique of killers" in the all-Hutu  government which was proclaimed after Habyarimana's death despite peace  accords under which a coalition administration including the RPF should have  been formed.
The United Nations, which came under fire for withdrawing all but 400 of  its 2,500 troops from Rwanda soon after the bloodbath began, is struggling to  muster enough soldiers for a planned new peacekeeping force of 5,500.
