Dominican President Joaquin Balaguer pledged  Wednesday to seal off his country's border with Haiti to plug the largest  leaks in a UN-ordered trade embargo, a US official said.
The Dominican leader made the pledge at a meeting with William Gray, US  President Bill Clinton's special envoy leading diplomatic efforts to restore  democracy in Haiti, a spokesman for Gray said.
In Port-au-Prince, meanwhile, top military leaders were meeting to discuss  a response to the stepped-up international pressure to restore democracy in  Haiti, informed sources said.
The meeting at army headquarters in the Haitian capital included 32 top  officers including heads of the nine military departments in Haiti and was  expected to include a response to a possible invasion, which has been  discussed by US officials.
Clinton has said he would not rule out the use of force to restore Haiti's  democracy, and has listed what he called vital US interests in Haiti.
A landing craft, the USS Wasp, left North Carolina Monday and was heading  to the Caribbean with 650 Marines on board, officials said.
Gray's meeting with Balaguer included the special UN envoy to Haiti, Dante  Caputo, and the US ambassador to Santo Domingo, Robert Pastorino. The  Dominican leader made no comment after the meeting.
The announcement in Santo Domingo came as the US ambassador to Haiti  traveled to the Haitian-Dominican border to get a glimpse of reported gaps in  the UN trade embargo on Haiti and a top US diplomat prepared for a Latin  American tour aimed at strengthening enforcement of the UN sanctions.
Ambassador William Swing visited the Haitian side of the border at Lake  Azui, which straddles the frontier, and spent 15 minutes eyeing the area  through binoculars.
"I wanted to see first-hand what the traffic on the border looks like, and  to symbolize our resolve to tighten the enforcement of the UN sanctions  against Haiti," Swing said.
The lake is one of many points at which Haitians and Dominicans have been  doing a brisk trade in some essential goods, particularly oil and kerosene  which they ferry between the two sides.
US officials have acknowledged that in order for the embargo to be  effective, the leaks must be stopped along the border with the Dominican  Republic, which shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti.
In Washington, State Department spokesman Michael McCurry said Deputy  Secretary of State Strobe Talbott would travel to El Salvador, Jamaica,  Venezeula and Brazil in an eight-day tour beginning May 31.
Talbott's talks "will include discussions of our joint efforts to restore  democracy in Haiti, focusing on specific actions which should be taken,"  McCurry said.
Asked about Talbott's mission, the spokesman said he would discuss  "specific things ... that can be pursued to make the sanctions enforcement  more effective."
The United States recently stepped up its efforts to force Haiti's  military leaders to leave power and allow the return of the country's first  democratically elected president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who was ousted in  September 1991.
