Killings and threats of increased violence  have overshadowed preparations for a presidential vote next week, even though  the parties signed a civility pact to guarantee peace during the balloting.
Already around 30 people have died in political violence during street  protests and rallies for the May 16 poll that pits President Joaquin Balaguer  against Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, a black leader of the Democratic  Revolutionary Party. Most recent surveys put them in a dead heat.
Also running is former president Juan Bosch of the Independent  Revolutionary Party. Bosch was ousted in a 1965 coup.
Balaguer and Pena Gomez urged their supporters Thursday to refrain from  violence during the final campaign events, which conclude Saturday. The two  leading candidates signed a "Civility Pact" on Tuesday.
Despite plenty of election slogans there is in fact few differences  between the candidates.
All praise current economic structural adjustment programs and plans to  sell state enterprises pushed by the International Monetary Fund and World  Bank.
But the opposition has argued that 87-year-old Balaguer, who is nearly  blind, is too old to remain president.
Both leading candidates have promised to create jobs for the estimated 30  percent of the economically active population that is out of work. Both have  also promised higher salaries and improved access to education and health care.
The Dominican Republic's 7.3 million people are about 15 percent white, 10  percent black and 75 percent mixed race. Per capital income is about 790  dollars annually while about 20 percent of the population is illiterate.
Some of the 2.5 million residents of the capital also began hoarding food  in anticipation of demonstrations. "This is normal, they always do this," one  supermarket manager said. "People buy just in case, but that does not mean  that there will be problems."
Nerves were shaken when Jacinto Peinado, the vice president of the ruling  Christian Social Reformist Party, said Wednesday that he had information that  the opposition had plans to hold demonstrations on Monday afternoon to disrupt  voting for president, 30 senators, 120 deputies and 103 mayors.
And the Democratic Revolutionary Party accused the ruling party of  instructing its observers to contest the results of any voting stations where  the opposition prevailed.
