After steering Australia from grim recession into  the sunny uplands of strong economic growth, a new cloud has appeared on Paul  Keating's horizon -- an opponent who is also a professional politician.
Until this week, Keating was coasting towards the middle of his first term  as prime minister, well ahead in the polls, his prospects for winning the 1996  election bolstered by the best economic indicators for 30 years.
Consumer confidence is soaring, the currency is buoyant, a growth rate of  four percent is among the highest in the Western world, inflation is among the  lowest, interest rates are at their most affordable for decades and  unemployment is still high but falling.
Best of all for Keating, he had a chief political opponent who by his own  admission, was "no politician".
Former economics professor John Hewson was also seen as contemptuous of  the kind of political machinations necessary to lay a glove on a formidable  political street fighter like Keating.
But if the pundits are any judge all that changed Monday and a new sense  of optimism swept the parliamentary corridors occupied by a conservative  opposition in the wilderness for 11 years.
Alexander Downer, born to politics 42 years ago as son and grandson of  distinguished Liberal politicians and proud to declare himself a politician  became not just opposition leader, but alternative prime minister.
His elevation was welcomed by media commendators who took the view that  green as Downer may be he will be a tougher opponent than his predecessor.
Suddenly, it seemed, a Labor government now in its fifth term, is facing a  real challenge to its prospects for a sixth.
A poll published by the Sydney Morning Herald on Wednesday indicated a  spectacular turnaround of political perceptions, effectively reversing the  standing of the party leaders.
It gave Downer an immediate lead over Keating, showing almost 60 percent  of those polled thought he would have a better chance against Keating than  Hewson.
Although pollster Irving Saulwick conceded it was a "first blush" reaction  which could quickly change, some political analysts believe support for  Keating is so flimsy it would take little to destroy it.
"I think this week is the start of next election and I think Downer's  election makes it 50-50," Sydney University politics professor Rod Tiffen told  AFP.
"The business cycle is moving as well as the government could possibly  expect, but I also believe support for Keating is very brittle because the  government still bears a lot of scars from the recession."
"Unemployment is likely to still be around nine percent at the next  election and I think if Downer is even a reasonably competent leader who  doesn't needlessly make enemies then he is in with a very strong chance."
"But Keating is a brilliant political fighter and there is no way he will  go down without a gigantic fight so it could be very interesting to watch."
Elaine Thompson, associate professor of political science at the  University of New South Wales described Downer as the closest the  conservatives have to the typical successful Labor politician -- "a person  born and bred to politics who lives and breathes politics."
"This means he will have a much better sense of going for the jugular and  he will be able to give as good as he gets," she said.
"I'm sure Keating will play it tough to assert his dominance, but I think  Downer is also very tough and his election as leader has the potential to  change the political equation in Australia."
