Cuba's state-run television blamed Florida-based  anti-Castro radio stations and the US government Sunday for the occupation of  Belgium's diplomatic residence here by more than 100 Cuban asylum-seekers.
"This latest incident is yet another consequence of the incitement to  illegal acts from Miami by counter-revolutionary stations, and of the  restrictive policies of US immigration service authorities," said a television  commentator on the official midday newscast.
Saturday, as many as 124 people, including 24 children, broke into the  residence in the western Havana neighborhood of Miramar in a desperate bid to  leave the country.
The asylum seekers appeared well organized, taking advantage of a weakness  in the residence's surveillance system. They gathered secretly in a  neighboring square, rushed the entry gate and scaled the security fence.
Dozens of Cuban police continued to surround the residence Sunday, turning  away pedestrians and putting up barricades in the streets to seal off the area  to traffic.
Sunday's broadcasts said US immigration services "continue to block legal  actions by people wishing to emigrate to the United States and who, after many  failures, resort to illicit ways and violence" to leave Cuba.
The United States routinely grants political asylum to Cubans who request  it after reaching US shores -- a policy Cuba has blamed for encouraging  emigrants' risky trips in unseaworthy vessels. A restricted number of US visas  are granted in Havana, where Washington has an Interests Section office but no  embassy.
Juventud Rebelde (Rebel Youth), the official publication of the Cuban  Communist Youth Union, criticized US policies that encourage asylum seekers.
It cited the murders of two Cubans May 12 by smugglers as the two were  trying to swim to Guantanamo, the US navy base on the southeast coast of Cuba.
The magazine also complained that efforts to dissuade Cubans from leaving  have never been sufficient in comparison with the generosity with which the  United States welcomes illegal Cubans.
Juventud Rebelde said the United States could offer 20,000 immigration  visas each year under bilateral agreements, but issued only 1,600 in 1993.
Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina acknowledged Saturday the unusual size of  the group, but reasserted President Fidel Castro's government's policy of not  dealing with people trying to obtain asylum through "pressure and force."
"This is not the way, (not) the mechanism to follow for those who want to  leave the country," said Robaina. He appealed to the group to leave  voluntarily and end the standoff.
In Belgium, Foreign Minister Willy Claes signalled the Cubans would not be  allowed to stay in the residence.
He told RTBF radio: "We will attempt to ensure, at least that these people  are not pursued, that they are not punished if they have to leave the embassy."
In the most recent such incident in Havana, eight Cubans who entered the  Belgian ambassador's residence in January surrendered peacefully a month later  after Belgium secured formal assurances from Cuban authorities that the eight  would face no charges.
