Moslem-Croat Federation delegates to   all-party Bosnia peace talks have agreed to negotiate dividing up the republic  on the basis of percentages set by their hosts, a Croat source said Wednesday.
Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic, Vice President Ejup Ganic, and  Bosnian Croat leader Kresimir Zubak agreed to base further discussions on the  51 percent of territory earmarked for their federation by the international  contact group hosting the talks, said the source.
The source was a member of the Croat press contingent who said he had  gained access to the closed-door meeting.
There was no official comment late Wednesday from the Moslem-Croat camp on  the state of negotiations, which resume Thursday for their second and final  day.
If confirmed, the report would mark a major advance in long-term efforts  by the international community to secure a permanent division of the war-torn  republic agreeable to the warring Moslem-Croat and Bosnian Serb camps.
Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic said Wednesday in an interview with  the Washington Post that he had asked Silajdzic to question the group on  specific guarantees it could offer the new federation over its 51 percent  offer.
To date, the Moslem-Croat federation, which presently controls 30 percent  of Bosnia, has held out for 58 percent.
The contact group has set aside the remaining 49 percent for the Bosnian  Serbs, who currently occupy more than 70 percent and who are represented at  the meeting by the leader of their self-proclaimed parliament, Momcilo  Krajisnik.
Krajisnik made no reference to any Moslem concessions, telling reporters  late Wednesday that each side had outlined its positions and that the  negotiations proper had yet to get under way.
The contact group, which held two sessions of separate talks Wednesday  with the Moslem-Croat and Serb camps, comprises experts from France, Britain,  Russia, the United States -- which has delegated President Bill Clinton's  special envoy Charles Redman to the talks -- and the United Nations.
Foreign ministers from the contact group countries presented their Bosnia  map on May 13 at a meeting at which they gave Croat, Moslem and Serb leaders  two weeks to return to the negotiating table.
France and Britain have already threatened to pull out their peacekeeping  troops in the absence of substantial progress towards peace.
Analysts said the warring camps feared such a withdrawal would be more  likely to plunge the republic back into all-out war than facilitate a  political solution.
The press source added that the group had offered to put in writing its  proposals for the future constitutional make-up of Bosnia drafted in line with  both sides' expectations.
The behind-closed-doors meeting, held amid tight security at Talloires, a  small tourist resort on the shores of Lake Annecy near the Swiss border, was  scheduled to end late Thursday morning, the source added.
The meeting aims to reach an agreement on the future carve-up of Bosnia  alongside a general four-month ceasefire, as a prelude to a permanent peace.
The Bosnian Serbs are calling for a permanent ceasefire, but Moslems fear  this could lead to the de facto entrenchment of current military positions and  allow the Serbs to hang onto territorial gains.
The Moslems hope their own recent offensives will give them room to  manoeuvre at the talks.
Krajisnik said Tuesday the Bosnian Serbs wanted a ceasefire as soon as  possible and did not attach any conditions to a truce or new peace talks.
Referring to sanctions in effect against Serbia and NATO air raids against  Bosnian Serbs, he complained that only the Serbs faced sanctions, adding: "We  think we must be treated in the same way" as other parties.
