Sudanese rebels said Monday the government refused  to discuss a truce during last week's peace talks in Kenya because Khartoum  had the "illusion" that it can achieve military victory over rebel fighters.
"A ceasefire was raised by the mediators but the government delegation  rejected it because they have the illusion that they will defeat the SPLA  (Sudan People's Liberation Army) militarily," said Pagan Amum, spokesman for  the mainstream SPLA delegation in the latest round of peace talks held in  Nairobi last week.
The negotiations between Sudan's Islamic fundamentalist military  government and the mainly Christian SPLA were adjourned here Saturday after  both sides agreed on an agenda for another round beginning here on July 18.
In Khartoum, the chief government negotiator, Mohamed Al-Amin Khalifa,  said all the main issues had been discussed at the peace talks, which ended  with a declaration of principles that was not binding on the parties.
While discussions had been detailed, some matters had not been discussed  at length because rebel delegates had arrived three days late for the talks,  which opened on Thursday, Khalifa said on his return to the Sudanese capital  on Sunday, according to the SUNA news agency.
Anum told a news conference here that a major government offensive  launched at the end of last year had been fought off by the rebels on three  fronts and the only two active fronts in the Eastern Nile region were now  bogged down after heavy rains in the vast swampland.
He accused the government of wasting Sudan's resources and human lives in  a bloody war.
Khalifa, who is the speaker of the Sudanese parliament, said in Khartoum  that the next round of talks would be "very important," alleging that the SPLA  was under pressure from circles which "do not want good for Sudan" to bid for  self-determination for the south as a "negotiating stance." He did not name  those circles.
Last week's round of peace talks was the latest in a series of so far  fruitless efforts to broker a peaceceful settlement to the conflict by the  Inter-governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD), grouping  Kenya, Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Sudan and Uganda.
The SPLA has been fighting for 11 years to end domination of south Sudan by  successive governments in Khartoum.
