US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said  Thursday that US-Japanese trade talks aimed at breaking a three-month deadlock  in trade negotiations were off to a "good start" and may be extended.
"We are making progress," Kantor said as he left the talks to testify at a  congressional hearing.
"It was a good start. We had an exchange of very detailed ideas," he said.  He refused to say whether the Japanese officials had brought any new proposals.
Washington has since said it was up to Japan to come back with new  proposals but that it would not return to the negotiating table until the two  sides had found a "basis of agreement" to resume talks that gave a good chance  of success.
Kantor later said the discussions could go beyond their one-day schedule.
"We have the patience to go a day or two to see how far we can get," he  said on Capitol Hill.
Kantor spent half an hour in the opening discussions between four US trade  officials and the five-member Japanese trade team, headed by Japanese deputy  foreign minister for economic affairs Sakayuki Hayashi and vice-minister at  the international trade and industry ministry Sozabaru Okamatsu.
Neither Hayashi nor Okamatsu commented as they arrived at the offices of  the US Trade Representative.
US officials were cautiously optimistic Wednesday that the talks would  make progress, although they stressed that Thursday's meeting was "talks about  talks," not a full-fledged resumption of negotiations.
Both sides have said they are anxious to make progress before the Group of  Seven industrialized countries summit in Naples in July.
Bilateral trade talks collapsed in February over disagreement on ways to  measure progress in reducing Japan's 60-billion-dollar trade surplus with  Washington under an agreement reached in July.
The latest talks came as the US government reported the US trade deficit  with Japan jumped 25.4 percent in March to 5.80 billion dollars, the  third-widest gap with Japan on record.
That deterioration came despite an overall improvement in the US trade  deficit, as the gap sharply narrowed 18.5 percent from the February level to  7.46 billion dollars.
Reports from Tokyo have indicated that the Japanese side has come to  Washington with agreement to accept in some form the "numerical targets"  demanded by the US side -- something it had hitherto rejected outright.
"It is clear there has been movement; how much movement remains the  question," said a senior trade official Wednesday.
The official said preliminary discussions suggested that the differences  between the two sides were narrowing, but said he had no idea what proposals  the Japanese would bring with them.
"I'm sure we will get past this period of non-negotiations and at some  point will soon get on to restarting these talks," Treasury Deputy Secretary  Roger Altman said in a television interview.
US Treasury Under Secretary Lawrence Summers stressed Wednesday that the  United States wanted "a concrete, credible agreement going beyond the failure  of the past," not a cosmetic papering over of differences.
If Thursday's talks can reach agreement to resume negotiations the Naples  summit date could be used as a deadline for accords, the US trade official  said.
The two sides are trying to agree on the definition of "objective  criteria" to measure progress in opening Japan's markets in the key areas of  government procurement, the auto trade, and financial services under a  framework agreement reached in July last year.
The government procurement talks cover computers, supercomputers,  satellites, medical technology and telecommunications.
