The United States could move unilaterally to  impose additional sanctions on Haiti to force its miltary leaders to give up  power, Washington's envoy in the crisis said Friday.
William Gray told reporters the embargo imposed by the United Nations  would take time to bite and "there may be a need for additional steps by  individual countries to bear additional pressure."
This "could be done by the US unilaterally or multilaterally," said Gray,  President Bill Clinton's special representative. He spoke after a trip to the  Dominican Republic aimed at boosting efforts to close its leaky border with  Haiti.
Gray said new sanctions could include restrictions on the transfer of  funds or on commercial flights. Another option was to enlarge the list of  people tied to the Haitian junta who would be ineligible for visas.
An embargo against Haiti covering all but food and medicine took effect  last weekend in a bid to force the military to relinquish power to ousted  president Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
Gray said the additional sanctions would be "targeted at specific sectors  by countries having the ability to enforce them" and not require an additional  UN resolution. He did not say what countries might be involved.
The US enovy also said that Dominican Republic troops were moving toward  the border with Haiti to keep a closer watch. Gray added that the troop  movements were "not something we suggested."
He said Washington would give Santo Domingo technical assistance if  requested by the United Nations to keep the border sealed and end the  sanctions-busting traffic in oil and other goods for Haiti.
Gray would not comment on reports that Santo Domingo could be equipped  with helicopters, planes and motorboats through the United Nations.
A UN team has gone to the Dominican Republic to assess its needs to  enforce the embargo, and UN envoy Dante Caputo was to return there next week  for talks on the matter.
Gray also said United States would be ready next week to announce the  creation of screening centres on land for Haitian refugees rather than have  them interviewed on US warships. But he said it would take several weeks to  set up the centres.
Gray, named by Clinton just three weeks ago to handle the Haitian crisis,  made his remarks amid continuing speculation of a possible military  intervention in Haiti if the sanctions do not work.
UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said after meeting with Clinton  here Friday that the world body was willing to wait weeks, but not several  months, for the sanctions to have an effect.
But Boutros-Ghali said he and Clinton did not discuss the possibility of a  US military operation. The next step would be decided by the UN Security  Council, he added.
