Southern Yemeni troops fought a fierce  battle Tuesday to resist a northern assault on Al-Anad air base, 50 kilometers  (30 miles) from their Aden stronghold.
"Thousands of bodies are scattered all over the battlefield," said a  witness, emerging from the centre of the base.
Troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh were in control of the  northern entrance and pounded their rivals with shells, an AFP reporter said  after touring the front.
But the south's soldiers and militiamen, holding on to the southern part  of the 35-square-kilometre (14-sq.-mile) base and surrounding hills,  retaliated with Soviet-made Katyusha rockets.
The soldiers manning rocket batteries, 20 kilometres (12 miles) from the  northern lines, were in high spirits.
The north claimed Monday it had captured the base but a southern military  spokesman in Aden said the assault was driven back nearly 20 kilometers (12  miles) on Tuesday after a land counter-offensive backed by heavy air strikes.
On the field, the commander of a southern unit deployed near Al-Anad told  AFP that "the other party is pounding the base and airport." Southern troops  had withdrawn their artillery from the base and redeployed.
Despite the raging battle, volunteers from Aden flocked to the southern  access to the base to pick up weapons and ammunitions.
In Sanaa, a northern army spokesman said Al-Anad air base, which the south  says has 20,000 soldiers, had been "razed to the ground and turned into a pile  of ruins" since its reported capture on Monday.
The southern army units of Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid were also  trying to drive the enemy away from a crossroads leading to Aden, the main  port city of the south with more than half a million inhabitants.
Baid's defence lines were spread over 17 kilometers (10.2 miles) to the  south of Al-Anad, bolstered by 130-millimetre batteries with a range of 30  kilometers (18 miles).
Multiple-rocket-launchers and anti-aicraft batteries were deployed on the  sides of the main road to Aden.
The northern units, meanwhile, also fought to break through on the eastern  front at Zinjubar, but Baid's forces were holding on to their positions, 40  kilometers (24 miles) from Aden.
Neither side has issued a casualty toll for the conflict which erupted on  May 5, but a senior southern leader, Salim Saleh Mohammad, said in a newspaper  interview that the losses were "large and horrible."
At least 175 Somali refugees at a seafront camp have been killed in  crossfire, according to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.
The fighting is still preventing the distribution of aid to some 6,000  Somalis left behind at Al Koud refugee camp, 50 kilometres (30 miles) from  Aden, a UNHCR spokesman said in Geneva.
On the diplomatic front, an Arab League delegation returned empty-handed  from Sanaa to Cairo on Tuesday after failing to secure a ceasefire, which the  north has rejected until the south surrenders.
"Nobody will win the war but there will be a political solution, sure,"  said Prime Minister Haidar Abu Baqer al-Attas, a southerner.
"The Arab states and League have to practice more pressure on Ali Abdallah  Saleh to stop the war, and then people can go to dialogue again and find a  suitable political solution," he told the US television network CNN.
"The war declared by Ali Abdallah Saleh is to strengthen his centralism  ... while unity was to form a unified country with decentralisation and at the  same time to build a modern state," said Attas, interviewed in the United  States.
Conservative North Yemen and the old Marxist South merged in May 1990.
