US and Japanese negotiators appeared to be  making progress in efforts to break a three-month deadlock in bilateral trade  talks after an hour-long meeting Saturday, and said they would meet again  Monday.
"We are having good meetings and we are going forward," a Japanese  official close to the delegation said after the two sides met for an hour at  the US Trade Representative's office, their fifth meeting since the talks  began Thursday.
US officials also have indicated during the three days that things were  going well.
There had been confusion earlier in the day about whether any talks would  be held Saturday.
But a meeting was finally set late in the day because "both sides felt  that it would be important to meet this afternoon to further clarify and  address the issues on the table," said Anne Luzzatto, spokeswoman for the US  Trade Representative.
She refused to give details on what issues were under discussion or what  progress had been made towards agreement to resume negotiations on ways to  open Japan's markets and reduce its 60 billion dollar trade surplus with  Washington.
US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor arrived at his office mid-morning,  and was later joined by Deputy US Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky,  but it was several hours before Luzzatto confirmed that a meeting with the  Japanese side would be held.
Japanese officials said the session took place at US request.
After the meeting, the heads of the Japanese delegation would say only  that the talks would continue.
"I can only say that talks are ongoing," said Japanese deputy foreign  minister for economic affairs, Sakayuki Hayashi, remarks echoed by  Vice-minister at the international trade and industry ministry, Sozabaru  Okamatsu.
The two sides started talks Thursday aimed at setting ground rules for  resumption of trade talks which collapsed in February.
The talks were originally scheduled to last only one day, but the two  sides met twice Thursday and held two more sessions Friday, then said they  would continue over the weekend.
The talks collapsed in February in disagreement over the US demand for  numerical targets to measure progress in opening Japan's markets under a July  agreement, a concept the Japanese side rejected as leading to managed trade  and quotas.
Washington consistently has said it would not return to the negotiating  table unless Japan came up with new proposals.
This week's talks were at Japan's request, and reports from Tokyo before  they began suggested the Japanese team could bring proposals for at least  partial acceptance of numerical targets in the government procurement sector.
US officials have refused to say whether the Japanese brought any such  offer, but it has become clear as the talks are repeatedly extended that the  two sides are engaged in serious discussion.
Commerce Secretary Ron Brown repeated Saturday that the any results of  Japan's market being opened must be measurable and monitorable.
"I think that the Japanese now finally understand that we are serious  about that," Brown said in a CNN television interview.
The two sides are trying to agree on the definition of "objective  criteria" to measure progress in opening Japan's markets in the key areas of  government procurement, the auto trade, and financial services under the July  framework agreement.
The government procurement talks cover computers, supercomputers,  satellites, medical technology and telecommunications.
