Asian economies are boosting their exports to each  other as the importance of the North American market fades, the international  trade and industry said in an annual report approved by cabinet Tuesday.
The ministry's white paper on international trade noted that increases in  exports towards Asia were particularly strong for Japan and Hong Kong between  1986 and 1992 and even more so for South Korea and Taiwan. China's exports,  heavily targetted towards Asia already, moved in the same direction.
Back in 1986, North America absorbed more than half of Taiwan's total  exports and Asia only a quarter. Six years later, North America accounted for  30 percent of Taiwan's exports compared with 40 percent for Asia.
While Japan's exports to North America have remained above 40 percent of  the total, its exports to Asia have jumped from 30.7 percent to 43.5 percent  in the same period. Japan's trade surplus with Asia meanwhile surpassed its  imbalance with the United States for the first time ever last year.
Midori Tani, the director of the ministry's international trade reseach  who authored this year's report, told a news conference that the development  of Japan's export pattern was largely insensitive to prices.
Japanese exports to Asia are dominated by capital goods such as machinery  which are needed to modernise Asian economies themselves, she noted.
But the country's imports, often dominated by consumer goods, are  "overproportionately sensitive" to the rate of Japanese economic growth. As a  result, they expand faster than the rest of the economy when times are good  and contract more sharply when times are bad, she said.
Tani noted that Australia and the United States were, while on the  periphery of the region, not insensitive to the booming growth in Asian  economies. Australia, in particular, "is moving towards Asia," she said.
Australia's exports, mainly agricultural products and raw materials, have  soared towards South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore, climbing from 16  percent of all exports to 29 percent during the period. Exports to Japan have  fallen slightly but still account for more than 25 percent of the total.
As for the Americans, they have increased their presence in both Asia and  Latin America at the expense of Europe.
