A near-total UN trade embargo against Haiti  goes into force Sunday at a time when President Bill Clinton is under growing  pressure from a powerful minority at home to use force to dislodge the  country's defiant military leaders.
The trade embargo sought by the United States will take effect after  midnight Saturday, (0400 GMT Sunday), unless Haiti's military rulers resign  and allow the restoration of democracy in Haiti.
UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali told the Security Council early  Friday there was no sign the military would comply with UN demands.
"I regret to inform the Council that there has been no change in the  attitude of the Haitian military, who have not taken any steps to comply" with  its Resolution 917, Boutros-Ghali said in a statement.
The May 6 resolution set the 15-day deadline in hopes of breaking the  deadlock on resolving the political crisis caused by the military ouster of  elected president Jean-Bertrand Aristide in September, 1991.
"On the contrary," Boutros-Ghali said, Haiti's military chief General  Raoul Cedras "supported the attempt to replace illegally the legitimate  president of Haiti." The May 11 installation of Emile Jonaissant, 81, as  interim president has not been recognized by the international community.
Boutros-Ghali reported his findings after consulting with the Organization  of American States.
The trade embargo, which excludes food and medical products, would be as  tough as those in effect against Iraq and the former Yugoslavia.
But its power is already in question.
Much of its effectiveness will depend on a strict closing of the border  between Haiti and the Dominican Republic, which share the Caribbean island of  Hispaniola.
The prospects are poor. An oil and weapons embargo reimposed in October  after Haitian General Raoul Cedras reneged on a UN-brokered accord with  Aristide has proved porous.
Black market oil has been flowing from the Dominican Republic into the  hands of Haiti's military and friends. Meanwhile, oil is scarce for the  majority of Haitians, living in the poorest country in the hemisphere.
