French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe defended Tuesday  the controversial issuing of a transit visa to his Libyan counterpart, as the  Libyan embassy said that minister Omar el Mountasser had passed through Paris  twice.
Speaking on RTL radio Tuesday, Juppe said that Muntasser was the foreign  minister of a country with which France has not broken off diplomatic  relations.
"Therefore, when he requests a transit through Paris between two  stopovers, I see no reason why we would refuse a transit," Juppe said.
The French foreign ministry said Monday that Muntasser came to Paris at  the weekend on a private visit, after attending last week's inauguration of  Nelson Mandela as South African president.
The ministry insisted Muntasser had no meetings with government officials.
The news of the visit infuriated relatives of people who died in a French  airliner bombing in 1989 blamed on Tripoli.
But according to the Libyan embassy in Paris, Muntasser stopped in Paris  twice, both on his way to South Africa and on his return.
The embassy said that Muntasser had not contacted French officials but did  not rule out that a meeting had taken place with Libya's lawyers in France  dealing with the downing of the UTA jet.
Libya has been punished with UN trade sanctions over the downing of the  UTA jet over Chad (Eds: correct) that killed 170 people, and of a PanAm jet  over Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988 that claimed 270 lives.
Juppe stressed that France was "among the most forceful in demanding the  application of UN Security Council resolutions and the pursuit of the judicial  process to judge the guilty or suspected guilty parties for the attack on the  French UTA aircraft."
Interior Minister Charles Pasqua said Tuesday that he had not been  informed of the visit.
According to a reliable source in Paris, the Libyan minister's stay in  Paris was organised by an intermediary of the Saudi Arabian businessman Adnan  Khashoggi. But the Libyan embassy here denied this.
Muntasser "took a return flight on South Africa Airways from Tunis (through  Paris) and returned to Tunis before going back to Tripoli, at the head of a  foreign ministry delegation," the embassy said.
The last occasion on which a Libyan foreign minister visited Paris was in  1991.
