Japanese Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata warned Tuesday  that the unmonitored removal of fuel rods at a North Korean nuclear plant  could lead to "a catastrophe."
"There are reports that the fuel rods have been continuously removed, at  an extremely fast rate," Hata told the National Press Club here, adding  without elaborating: "It could lead to catastrophe."
The premier noted the UN Security Council had taken a "very cautious  attitude" overnight by only calling on North Korea to allow full inspections  of the refuelling operation.
The council, in a consensus statement read by its chairman, Ibrahim  Gambari, called for immediate consultations between the International Atomic  Energy Agency (IAEA) and North Korea over the question but it did not threaten  any sanctions.
Removal of the rods at the five-megawatt reactor at the Yongbyon complex,  90 kilometers (54 miles) north of Pyongyang, will make it impossible to verify  if any plutonium has been diverted for military use, according to the IAEA.
According to US assessments, the fuel rods could contain enough material  for several nuclear bombs.
Hata reiterated his offer of economic help to boost North Korea's living  standards, in cooperation with South Korea, the United States and China, if  the renegade Stalinist state "opens its heart to the international community."
He stopped short of specifying what Japan would do in the event of UN  sanctions or US-led independent action in the nuclear standoff.
"Whatever we do, it will be within the framework of the constitution," the  premier said.
Japan's postwar constituion bars the use of force in settling  international disputes, although it has been hotly debated whether Japan can  revise laws to strengthen its logistical support for US forces in an emergency.
Hata earlier chaired a meeting of the Japanese national security council,  where Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa also voiced alarm about the crisis.
He was quoted by Jiji press as saying North Korean scientists had already  withdrawn 4,800 out of the 8,000 fuel rods at Yongbyon, and the world would be  in a "critical phase" in the next two days.
Meanwhile, the Japan Times newspaper reported that the finance ministry  was studying ways of blocking yen-denominated bank transfers to North Korea,  and the ministry of international trade and industry was contemplating  imposing authorisation for all exports to the country.
These measures would be implemented if sanctions are decided by the UN  Security Council, and would go hand-in-glove with a possible ban on charter  flights to North Korea, the newspaper said.
There are around 80 charter flights each year between the two countries,  carrying mostly Koreans with business or residence in Japan.
Japanese banks have already voluntarily stopped dollar-denominated  transfers to North Korea. Japan and China are North Korea's biggest trade  partners and sources of hard currency.
An emergency meeting was also held by the South Korean cabinet Tuesday.  Its foreign minister, Han Sung-Joo, hinted that Seoul could seek sanctions  against Pyongyang outside the UN framework if China used its veto in favor of  the Stalinist North.
