Ukraine dispatched at least 1,000  troops to Crimea overnight in what local officials Thursday called a "military  coup" against the autonomous government of the Russian speaking region.
Valery Kuznetsov, Crimea's acting interior minister, said the troops,  headed by Ukrainian Deputy Interior Minister General Valentin Nedrigailo (eds  correct), had presented him with a decree from President Leonid Kravchuk  ordering the takeover of local law-enforcement forces.
"A military coup d'etat is underway," Kuznetsov told the local parliament  after the elite Ukrainian interior ministry and national guard troops arrived.
Parliamentary sources in Kiev said the move amounted to the introduction  of presidential rule in Crimea, which has been moving towards reunification  with Russia since the election in January of a Russian nationalist, Yuri  Meshkov, as Crimea's president.
The move came ahead of presidential elections in Ukraine, scheduled for  June 26, which Kravchuk is expected to lose and is demanding be postponed.
It also coincides with the election on Wednesday of a serious political  rival to Kravchuk to the influential post of speaker of the Ukrainian  parliament, conservative Alexander Moroz.
The Ukrainian interior ministry charged that claims of a coup d'etat in  Crimea were "disinformation," but it did not deny that special troops had  arrived in the peninsula, ITAR-TASS reported.
Kravchuk spokesman Viktor Stelmakh meanwhile said that the Ukrainian  president talked by telephone earlier Thursday with Russian President Boris  Yeltsin but gave no further details.
Kuznetsov said the forces had landed at the military airfields of  Khersones and Belbek, near the city of Sevastopol and home base of the Black  Sea fleet.
The ITAR-TASS news agency quoted sources from the Black Sea fleet as  confirming the arrival of the forces that were said to number between 1,000  and 1,300, adding that a delegation from the Ukrainian security ministry had  arrived in Sevastopol.
Crimean lawmakers meanwhile voted to grant Kuznetsov full powers as  interior ministry to ward off the threat of a takeover by interior ministry  forces from Kiev.
They also received a copy of the Kravchuk decree ordering the Crimean  interior ministry and its facilities to be placed under the direct control of  the Ukrainian interior ministry.
The Crimean peninsula, inhabited by a Russian majority, was part of Russia  up until former Soviet leader Nikita Krushchev handed over the territory to  Ukraine in 1954.
Crimean leaders have stepped up their drive for reunification with Russia  in the past months by holding an unofficial referendum in March in which a  majority voted in favor of closer ties with Moscow.
The separatist "Russia Bloc" party won an overwhelming majority of seats  in the Crimean parliament during elections in March on a platform that called  for reunification with Russia.
