Alexander Solzhenitsyn's return to Moscow comes  more than 20 years after he became the first Soviet citizen to be expelled  from the country since Stalin's rival Leon Trotsky in 1929.
On Wednesday, February 13, 1974, after a night spent in Moscow's Lefortovo  prison, the 55-year-old writer was placed aboard an Aeroflot airliner by  half-a-dozen KGB agents, en route for Frankfurt, Germany.
He had the luxury of a first-class cabin all to himself, a far cry from  the privations of the prison camps where he spent eight years during the  Stalin era and whose exposure, in "The Gulag Archipelago," brought about his  expulsion.
On his arrival in what was then still West Germany, Solzhenitsyn spent two  days in the country home of fellow-Nobel Literature Prize laureate Heinrich  Boll, where he rested and held a brief press conference before moving on to  Zurich.
His wife and family were to join him in the Swiss city a few weeks later  but they soon left to settle in the remoteness of the US state of Vermont.
Solzhenitsyn's expulsion and the loss of his Soviet citizenship were the  culmination of a long struggle with the authorities over his trenchant  criticism of the Soviet system, and especially its punishment of dissidents.
Matters came to a head when he authorised publication abroad of "The Gulag  Archipelago" after learning that the secretary who had typed the the  manuscript of the book had hanged herself following a lengthy interrogation by  the KGB.
The Soviet intelligence service had also obtained a copy of the work which  the secretary had secretly buried.
While communist party hardliners demanded that Solzhenitsyn be punished  with hard labour for life, the government of President Leonid Brezhnev decided  on banishment from the country for alleged treason.
The decision and his deprivation of citizenship were rubber-stamped by the  Soviet parliament.
On February 11, 1974, Solzhenitsyn was summoned for questioning by the  Moscow prosecutor's office. He refused to go, citing the "total lack of  legality" in force in the country.
The following day, eight policemen came to his apartment to seek him.  According to his wife Natalia, as he was putting on his coat he was assured  that he would be back soon.
It is expected to be several week before Solzhenitsyn actually arrives  back in Moscow, after travelling across Siberia and paying a visit to former  camps of the Gulag.
He will find, if he wants to seek them out, many former inmates and  dissidents, some of whom were released as recently as 1987. They include  Alexei Smirnov, 43, who spent five years in detention for anti-Soviet  propaganda.
Smirnov, who saw many of his comrades die of hunger and exhaustion, now  heads the "Moscow centre for research into human rights", an organisation  which he says is viewed no more favourably by the present authorities than it  would have been by their predecessors.
Along with such colleagues as Yelena Bonner, widow of dissident scientist  Andrei Sakharov, they are fighting for human rights in all parts of the former  Soviet Union.
"While the flagrant violations may have disappeared in Russia, the threat  remains in the Caucasus and Asia, in Turkmenistan and especially Uzbekistan,"  he said.
