Surrey skipper Alec Stewart savoured his side's  remarkable unbeaten start to the season on Monday but said: "We are not  getting carried away."
The Britannic Assurance Championship leaders crushed Derbyshire by an  innings and 138 runs at The Oval. And not even a superb century by Chris Adams  -- his second against Surrey in successive days -- could prevent them making  it eight wins out of eight in all competitions.
"It's the result of consistent team work, with everyone chipping in. But  we are not even a quarter of the way through the season," said the England  batsmen who declared Surrey's first innings on the Saturday when they had  reached a massive 570 for six. David Ward ended just six short of a triple  century.
Derbyshire were all out for 224 in their second knock, with Adams  overcoming a bruised thigh to score an unbeaten 109. His century came off 95  balls and he hit four sixes and 17 fours.
West Indian all-rounder Carl Hooper belted a record nine sixes for Kent in  a magnificent 160 off 149 balls at Chelmsford -- and then claimed three for 19  as Essex lost six wickets on their way to scoring the modest 50-run target  they needed for victory.
"The ball bounced and turned and it was always going to be difficult to  survive. So it needed an aggressive approach to try and take the initiative  away from the spinners," said Hooper, adding: "Had Essex been left something  in the region of 120, they would have found it difficult."
Leicestershire survived an early attack of batting jitters to beat  Somerset by five wickets at Grace Road.
Set a target of 110, they slumped to 42 for four, with leg-spinner Mushtaq  Ahmed claiming three victims. But a stand of 56 between Ben Smith and Vince  Wells put them back on course.
Earlier paceman David Millns, watched by England selector Brian Bolus,  completed match figures of nine for 127.
Sussex pulled off their first championship win of the season in a tight  finish at Hove.
Needing 156 to beat Hampshire, they got home by two wickets with  tail-enders Paul Jarvis and Eddie Hemmings holding their nerve to contribute  the last 17 of them.
Earlier, Franklyn Stephenson took six for 55 as Hampshire crashed to 167  all out. It left him with match figures of 11 wickets for 96.
