Zimbabwe's Mark McNulty showed he is equally at  home in the wet as on South Africa's sunshine circuit by charging into a two  shot lead in the rain-hit Spanish Open here.
The 40-year-old had to wait more than five hours to start his second round  on Friday at Club de Campo after heavy overnight rain, and more in the morning  prevented play from starting until early afternoon.
Even then, play was only possible for 30 minutes before another downpour  delayed things for another two hours -- setting the scene for a series of  evening finishes.
McNulty started at the 10th with a birdie three and two more birdies in  his first six holes saw him overtake first round leader Ernie Els of South  Africa, one of many players who were told that their second rounds would not  start until Saturday.
McNulty almost sank a 60-yard pitch to the 12th and holed from 25 feet at  the 15th before again having to return to the clubhouse when another storm hit  the saturated course.
At 7.30pm, the Zimbabwean reached the turn in 34,and  then put clear  daylight between himself and the rest of the field by making further birdies  at the 10th and 12th. He was seven under when darkness halted golf after he  had played 14 holes.
McNulty has only just returned to the European circuit after damaging  shoulder tendons while playing beach cricket with his children in Cape Town  three weeks ago.
"I fell very awkwardly diving to take a catch and landed heavily on my  right side," he said.
South African Wayne Westner was among a group of 12 players who pulled out  with a variety of injuries and strains. Westner had been sick overnight and  his explanation was quickly accepted.
But former European number one Ronan Rafferty could be fined up to 250  pounds for walking out after five holes of his second round.
"I am not going to make up an excuse," said the Ulsterman. "I just don't  want to play anymore."
Sweden's Klas Eriksson, winner of the Challenge Tour last year, was forced  out with a bad wrist, while veteran Spaniard Ramon Sota, 56-year-old uncle of  Severiano Ballesteros said: "I am withdrawing because I am too old for all  this."
Defending champion Joakim Haeggman, Sweden's first Ryder Cup player, could  have been forgiven for joining the exodus. But he battled on against poor form  which saw him take sixes at his first two par fives, making it a near  certainty that he will not make the cut.
Ballesteros, hoping for a second successive victory after his success at  St. Mellion last week, struggled to stay in touch despite making birdies at  the third and eighth to go two under par.
The Spaniard three-putted the ninth and dropped another stroke at the 10th  to return to where he began the day at level par.
The first to make sure of a place in the third round was Manny Zerman, an  Italian-born South African who was raised in Durban but now lives in the USA.
He has 73 for 143 after reporting for play at eight o'clock in the morning  but not completing his 18 holes until nine at night.
