Eurotunnel moved on Thursday to raise about 1.5  billion pounds (2.25 billion dollars) to plug holes in the finances of its  link beneath the Channel from England to France.
The company, which ran into several financial problems as it tunnelled,  said it planned to raise 816 million pounds (1.224 billion dollars) through a  three-for-five rights issue, pricing shares at 265 pence each, in a statement  on Thursday.
The issue price was at a discount of 25.3 percent to the closing price  here on Wednesday of 355 pence.
The value of the issue was lower than analysts' expectations of about 900  million pounds and the price was higher than the expected figure of 230 pence  to 250 pence.
In Paris, meanwhile, it was announced that the French co-chairman of  Eurotunnel, Andre Benard, had resigned and would be succeeded in July by  Patrick Ponsolle, the former number two at the Suez Company.
Eurotunnel said in a statement it had also entered into agreements with  the company's banks for additional credit facilities of 693 million pounds.
Shareholders have authorised the company to issue 342 million new shares.  Eurotunnel said the subscription period would begin on June 2.
In France, the rights issue would be offered to shareholders at 22.50  francs a share to raise 7.29 billion francs. The sum was calculated on the  basis of 10 francs to the pound to keep calculations in line with previous  forecasts. The current exchange rate is 8.4880 French francs to the pound.
Eurotunnel said the 693 million pounds of additional credit and the 816  million pounds from the rights issue, together with other projected sources of  finance, would be sufficient to cover all of its cash requirements "in a range  of scenarios around a central, or base case, estimate."
It also said the first dividend, of around 13 pence, would be paid in 2004  for the year to December 1993 and that "substantially all" of Eurotunnel's  then available distributable profits would be paid out as dividends.
Analyst Richard Hannah at the Union Bank of Switzerland said that the  overall size of the financing package, which would raise about 1.5 billion  pounds, was also "slightly lower" than the 1.6 billion pounds he had expected.
Hannah said he was "cautious" about how well the rights issue would be  taken up by investors, even though the issue was underwritten. "It could still  be difficult given Eurotunnel's poor forecasting record," he added.
Eurotunnel said that as a result of events since the 1990 rights issue, the  financing arranged by Eurotunnel up to December 1990 had proved insufficient  to meet the total forecast costs of the project and cash-flow deficit in the  early years of operation.
Costs committed up to the date of the tunnel's inauguration on May 6 were  about one billion pounds greater than total costs projected at the time of the  1990 rights issue, the company said.
The largest elements of the increase are 610 million pounds of net revenue  which has been foregone owing to delay in opening, and an increase in  construction costs of 290 million pounds.
Shortly after the announcement, the price of the shares fell by 27 pence  to 328 on the London Stock Exchange.
In Paris, the price of the shares fell by 8.2 percent to 28 francs and  trading had to be suspended for a while because the supply proved too much for  demand. Two million shares were traded.
