Some 3.8 million Malawian voters were called to  the polls Tuesday in a landmark democratic election giving them their first  chance to break veteran president Kamuzu Banda's monopoly of power since  independence.
Banda, officially 88 but thought to be at least 93 years old, is hoping to  cash in on the veneration this landlocked, impoverished and 85 percent rural   nation of 9.4 million people affords its elders in his bid to take the  election for his ruling Malawi Congress Party (MCP).
But he will face stiff opposition from former aide Bakili Muluzi, 51, who  now heads the opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) and is tipped to win.
Banda, a leader of the struggle against British colonialism in the 1950s  and 60s, took power when the former Nyasaland gained independence in 1966 and  has clung onto it with an iron grip ever since.
Within a year of taking office, he was isolated as the only African leader  to maintain diplomatic ties with apartheid South Africa, a distinction which  made him the skunk of the continent.
He brooked no opposition, and flung thousands of dissenters in jail,  driving others into exile.
He has come in for constant criticism from international human rights  watchdogs, and has imposed a puritanical regime on the country, forbidding  women to wear trousers and men to grow their hair long.
Until last year, any reference to his personal life, his age, his state of  health, his origins or his mysterious past was outlawed.
But since Malawi embarked on the road to multi-party democracy, a newly  independent press has cast doubt on the Malawian credentials of a man who  cannot speak the local language, and has raised a host of questions about the  40 years he spent in the United States and England, where he was a doctor.
Banda, who built up a cult of personality sustained by the MCP's Youth  League, the Women's League and the feared paramilitary Young Pioneers, was  careful not to allow any detraction from outside, refusing to introduce  television into the country.
But his grip has been weakened by the contest, and in recent appearances  dressed in three-piece suit, bowler hat and flailing his fly whisk, he has  appeared frail and tired.
He is unmarried, but has lived for the past 30 years with the official  hostess, Cecilia Kadzimira, whose uncle John Tembo is seen as the eminence  grise behind Banda.
A new constitution, written by the multi-party National Consultative  Council, was approved by Banda's 22-member cabinet and passed by parliament  only on Monday to underpin the election.
It provides for a 177-seat parliament and sharply reduces the powers of  the new president.
The 2,000 polling stations countrywide were due to open at 6:00 a.m. (0400  GMT) and stay open for 12 hours.
It was not known where Banda would vote, if he would vote at all, although  the obvious venue would be the Dharap primary school some 800 metres (yards)  from his official residence Sanjika Palace.
Official results are expected Thursday.
Banda said Monday he had heard that there had been shooting in the  southern district of Nsanje, putting it down to intimidation of potential  voters.
He told state radio Monday: "Voting in an election is not an acquired  privilege, it is an essential human right."
He said Tuesday's poll was important because it will determine how Malawi  will be governed in the next five years.
He said regardless of the outcome of results, Malawians should work  together for a better country.
"We should emerge from the elections as all winners," he said, urging that  they prove to the world that "we are politically mature and we can behave like  ladies and gentlemen".
