Japan's trade surplus grew 8.1 percent from a year  earlier to 11.1 billion dollars in April but was down from 13.95 billion  dollars in March, the finance ministry said Friday.
The larger imbalance reflected bigger surpluses with both Asia and the  United States which were offset by a smaller surplus with Europe.
Japan's total exports grew 7.1 percent to 32.9 billion dollars while  imports were up 6.6 percent at 21.8 billion dollars.
"The trend has not changed," a ministry official said, noting that the  trade surplus in yen terms was down 1.6 percent from a year earlier, marking  the third consecutive decline. "But yen-based transactions decreased and  overall export volumes fell as import volumes rose."
Exports were boosted by strong shipments of semiconductors, ships and  automotive parts although exports of motor vehicles alone were down sharply.    Exports were also inflated by trading companies rushing to ship products  before a string of holidays which began in the last week of April, the  official said.
Imports, which remained depressed by lower prices for crude oil, were led  by aircraft followed by textiles, seafood and semiconductors.
In the latest month, Japan's trade surplus with Asia widened 12.4 percent  from a year earlier 5.3 billion dollars, marking two years of uninterrupted  growth. Exports to neighbouring countries jumped 13.1 percent to 12.9 billion  dollars and imports from the region leapt 13.6 percent to 7.6 billion dollars.
The politically-sensitive trade surplus with the United States expanded  8.9 percent to 4.4 billion dollars, the second consecutive monthly increase.  Exports to the country grew 11.8 percent to 9.6 billion dollars as imports  advanced at a faster pace of 14.3 percent to 5.2 billion dollars.
But the surplus with the European Community narrowed 11.6 percent to 2.3  billion dollars, shrinking for the fourth month in a row. Exports to the 12  countries fell 2.8 percent to 4.9 billion dollars and imports from the  community rose 6.6 percent to 2.6 billion dollars, the ministry said.
