South Africa and Australia, named as possible troop contributors, on  Wednesday said they had decided not to send soldiers.
But Ghana and Nigeria have agreed, and New Zealand, Senegal, Zambia and  Zimbabwe are said to be considering committing troops.
France is willing to provide equipment but has pledged no soldiers to what  may be an all-African force, diplomats said.
The first stage of the mission will be to bring a Ghanaian battalion  partially withdrawn last month back to its full strength of 800.
But the exact shape of the peacekeeping operation which the UN wants to  set up in Rwanda is still vague.
The blue helmets' main mission will be to escort convoys of food and  medicine to millions of hungry and displaced Rwandans.
They have been authorised to use force in self-defence or to protect  civilians from militia death squads only loosely controlled by the government.
But they will not intervene in fighting between the rebels and government  forces, Kabia said.
The rebels have warned that they would attack any "foreign military  intervention force" but have agreed to the planned force provided it sticks to  a "humanitarian mission," though they have said that 5,500 soldiers are too  many.
Doubts persist about how effective a UN force would be in stopping  Rwandans from slaughtering each other.
"The killings are widespread and they're done by machete, in silence,  often at night, by attackers who raid people's homes," an African diplomat  said. "How do you deploy conventional soldiers to stop that?"
German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel meanwhile said 500,000 people had  been killed in six weeks of bloodletting sparked by the April 6 death of  president Juvenal Habyarimana.
Aid agencies had preveiously estimated the death toll at between 200,000  and 500,000.
"It may not be known, but you can write this down, that according to  information we Europeans have 500,000 people have been slain, 500,000 people,"  Kinkel told a news conference in Bonn.
Much of the carnage has been blamed on the extremist Hutu militias who  have butchered Tutsis, Hutu moderates and opposition supporters with machetes  and clubs.
The rebels denied slaughtering civilians after a field worker of the UN  High Commissioner for Refugees said he saw guerrillas fire on Rwandans trying  to swim the corpse-clotted Akagera river to seek sanctuary in neighbouring  Tanzania.
