Japanese textile, cosmetics and pharmaceutical  concern Kanebo Ltd. announced Wednesday a pre-tax loss of 6.7 billion yen (65  million dollars) for the year to March and forecast an even bigger loss this  year.
Chairman Kazutomo Ishizawa and president Masao Nagata meanwhile submitted  their resignations to the board of the troubled Osaka-based company which also  announced the suspension of its annual dividend payment.
Kanebo, a long-established spinning company which is now Japan's  second-largest cosmetics firm, also announced plans to cut 2,000 jobs from the  21,000-strong workforce throughout the group over the next two years.
The company said its recent loss, which reversed a profit of 4.5 billion  yen a year earlier, was expected to be surpassed this year with a forecast  loss of 9.8 billion yen including a 6.3 billion yen loss in the first half.
Sales, which plunged 17.9 percent to 419 billion yen in the latest year,  are expected to remain stagnant at 420 billion yen.
"We will stake everything on promoting the restructuring of the company's  businesses and make efforts towards an early resumption of dividends," the  company said in a statement.
Nagata, who is to become chairman after resigning as president, was quoted  as telling a news conference in Osaka that Kanebo would reduce its borrowings  of 320 billion yen by as much as 60 billion yen over the next three years.
The Kanebo president, who is expected to step down in June, also announced  plans to "reorganise" the unprofitable synthetic fibre and fashion merchandise  businesses. Earlier reports said Kanebo planned to phase out its synthetic  fibre and food activities to focus on cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and fashion.
Company officials refused to confirm a report that Kanebo was planning to  suspend its year-end bonuses, which usually amount to several months' salary  in Japan. The evening edition of the Yomiuri Shimbun said the company's union  had agreed to the plan in exchange for keeping jobs.
Nagata is to be replaced by Soichi Ishihara, a senior managing director  who has been negotiating the restructuring of Kanebo with various banks  including its top shareholder Sakura Bank Ltd., company officials said.
In the year just ended, sales of all synthetic fibres, including nylon and  acrylic, were lower as were sales of natural fibres including wool, silk and  cotton. Sales of fashion goods and food also declined. But sales of cosmetics,  pharmaceuticals and information equipment were higher.
"The economic slump has been prolonged and severe," the company statement  said. "Our company has aimed at restructuring businesses in cooperation with  labor unions, such as enhancing the cosmetics and toiletry, chemicals and new  materials operations while streamlining natural fibre activities and  separating our food businesses. We also have made thorough cost-cutting  efforts.
"However, we could not overcome sluggish consumption," it said.
