Representative Dan Rostenkowski's position as  head of a powerful congressional committee and his legendary wheeling and  dealing make him an unusual entity in Washington: a lawmaker who gets things  done.
Rostenkowski, 66, was weened on rough, big city politics in Chicago, where  personal allegiance is more important that partisanship and the rules of the  game are sometimes a little different.
In 1963, just a few years after he became the youngest member in Congress,  Rostenkowski was ordered by a Chicago judge to stop using Democratic Party  funds to pay parking fines for voters in his district.
Rostenkowski complied, but he denied there was anything underhand about  providing such services for his constituents, who have returned him to  Congress with more than 80 percent of the vote every two years since 1974.
He was also appreciated in Washington, where his influence as head of the  Ways and Means Committee and his phenomenal horse-trading abilities are  invaluable to his colleagues and to the White House.
President Bill Clinton, who was counting on the powerbroker to push his  health care reforms through, personally went to bat for Rostenkowski before  the Illinois primary in March.
"If you want me to get things done, you have to say to the members of  Congress: 'Act!'" he told a campaign rally in Chicago. "The one person you  don't have to say it to is Dan Rostenkowski. It's in his bones and he will do  it."
Rostenkowski was urged into politics by his Polish-born father, Joseph, a  long-time local politician, and after six years on the state legislature he  was elected to the House of Representatives in 1958.
In 1964, he joined the powerful Ways and Means Committee, which not only  holds the government purse strings but determines committee assignments, key   to clinching backroom deals in Congress.
That position and hard work helped him push through an historic tax reform  bill under then-president Ronald Reagan and eventually won him the most  coveted of chairmanships.
That drive continues to carry Rostenkowski through the crisis which  threatens to end his career.
Tuesday, the 36-year House veteran was facing indictment on charges he  traded some 21,000 dollars worth of House post office stamps for cash and put  people on his payroll who did not work.
Prosecutors had offered Rostenkowski a plea bargin in which he would admit  to one felony count and serve a short prison term, but he chose to fight it  out and risk indictment on several federal corruption charges.
"It is absolutely in chairman Rostenkowski's nature to want to fight it  out," said veteran Washington pundit and long-time friend Cokie Roberts.
And some of his colleagues believe the 1.88 meters, 91 kilograms (6 foot 2  inch, 200 pound) legislator, will brave the storm and redeem himself.
"He is an honest, straight forward individual," said Mike Kopetski.
Kopetski is a fellow Democrat who also sits on the Ways and Means  Committee but even "Rosty's" staunchest foes have grudging admiration for him.
"He is a big man who did a big job. You hate to see any human being go  through this kind of agony," said House Republican whip Newt Gingrich, who  leads the chamber's right wing members.
