Confident Barcelona boss Johan Cruyff predicted  AC Milan defender Franco Baresi's absence could prove crucial in the European  Cup on Wednesday.
"It's very important, to them and to us," said Cruyff. "He's fundamental  to their defensive organisation."
Veteran Italian international Baresi, along with defensive partner  Alessandro Costacurta, is suspended for the final, depriving the Italian  champions of their defensive backbone.
That defence has been the basis of their Serie A success this season,  conceding a record low of just 15 goals.
With Barcelona boasting Europe's most exciting front pairing of Brazilian  Romario and Bulgarian Hristo Stoichkov, the final looked sure to be dubbed The  Unstoppable Force versus The Immovable Object.
But the absence of Baresi, who was booked against Monaco in the  semi-final, and Costacurta, who was sent off, will leave boss Fabio Capello  with a gaping hole to plug in the heart of his defence.
Baresi, however, warned Cruyff: "We've looked at Barcelona on video and  they always make at least one mistake. We aim to punish them.
"Once we go ahead, we won't let them get back on level terms."
While Capello juggled with the possibilites -- Filippo Galli and Maldini  look the likely central pairing in Athens, although French midfielder Marcel  Desailly could also be switched -- Cruyff turned up the psychological pressure  by underlining his team's strengths.
"We are much more competitive and experienced than we were when we beat  Sampdoria in 1992," he said, before revealing he had offered new deals to all  his out-of-contract players, including Dane Michael Laudrup.
That represents a major change of heart after the former Dutch legend  threatened his whole squad with the axe midway through the Spanish season.
Laudrup, meanwhile, is almost sure of being left out of Barcelona's  starting line-up, while his brother Brian is still hoping to replace the  injured Zvonomir Boban for Milan.
Cruyff's belief in a fairy-tale ending to the season is easy to understand.
His side snatched the league championship from under Deportivo La Coruna's  noses last week to win the crown on the very last day of the season for the  third year in a row.
Cruyff said: "To have won so many matches for the past three months, I ask  myself how we can lose the European Cup."
His upbeat mood was backed by Romario, Spain's top scorer this season with  30 goals -- a total he predicted after arriving from Dutch club PSV Eindhoven.
"We will win -- I'm sure of it," he said, adding he would dedicate the cup  to his father, who has just been released after being kidnapped for a day in  Brazil.
Romario said: "I want him to come to Athens to celebrate victory with me  -- and I'll also dedicate the win to my teammate Stoichkov, who's one of the  family."
Milan's victory hopes will weigh heavily on Montenegrin Dejan Savicevic,  whose fine form this season forced French international Jean-Pierre Papin to  cut short his Italian stay and head for Bayern Munich.
Savicevic, who won the cup in a penalty shoot-out with Red Star against  Marseille in 1991, said: "This cup means everything to me, because the other  international players will go off to the World Cup, while I've only got AC  Milan.
"Barcelona may be favourites but we've also got some strengths."
