The United States needs to start behaving like a  superpower by showing commitment to friendly nations and respect for their  laws, a Singapore newspaper said Friday.
The Straits Times, referring to the caning here of American teenager  Michael Fay for vandalising cars, said that there was still "too much rancour"  in America's management of "fallout" from the row triggered by the affair.
The paper said in an editorial that US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor  was guilty of "gross indecency" in moving to block Singapore's bid to host the  first meeting of the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
The paper said that while Kantor's move was clearly linked to the Fay  affair, the trade representative's hijacking of the decision-making  prerogative of WTO members was an indiscretion that should be condemned.
"Member states decide who shall be the host. Singapore may or may not get  the vote, but it should not be because of the Fay case," it added.
The Straits Times said that just as the Olympic movement was debased by  arguments over China's human rights record, Kantor's move threatened to  distort conduct of international relations by dragging the WTO into a  bilateral squabble.
The paper said that the affair raised the spectacle of the world's  strongest nation being manipulated by the 18-year-old's overwrought family,  adding: "It was amusing, now it gets tiresome."
Fay received four lashes of the cane on his bare buttocks last week after  pleading guilty to spray-painting cars, pelting them with egges and keeping  stolen road signs and flags.
The subordinate court sentenced him to six strokes of the cane, a fine and  four months jail but President Ong Teng Cheong dropped two strokes after  repeated appeals by President Bill Clinton to spare the rod.
The Straits Times also accused the US government of waffling over  admitting Singapore's claim that accounts by Fay's father, George Fay, and his  American lawyer, Theodore Simon, on the teenager's condition after the caning  were exaggerated.
Singapore's Prisons Department in a statement last week denied claims by  George Fay and Simon that the lashing left Fay unable to sit during a meeting  with a US embassy official and that blood had run down the teenager's legs  during the beating.
"If it (the United States) does not believe the Prisons Department  account, it should say outright that the Singapore government is lying," the  Straits Times said.
"If the US accepts it as accurate, it owes Singapore an obligation to be  forthright," the paper added.
