German M3 money supply grew at an annual rate of  15.8 percent during April and far exceeded the Bundesbank's target of 4.0-6.0  percent for 1994, provisional figures from the German central bank showed on  Tuesday.
But analysts said that they were not surprised owing to volatility on the  bond market, and that the recent easing of short-term rates might drive funds  into long-term instruments, thus removing them from the M3 calculation
The M3 figure had shown a 15.4-percent growth rate in March, 17.5 percent  in February and 21.2 percent in January.
The Bundesbank stressed in a statement that money supply "grew strongly in  April" partly because the bank had paid almost all of its profits for 1993 to  the state in that month
It said that the April figure was still much influenced by the expansion  in German M3 around the end of 1993 and the beginning of 1994, which the bank  said was caused by exceptional factors.
The April figure was also attributable to uncertainty on world markets,  the bank said, expressing the hope that recent German interest rate cuts would  ease a liquidity bottle-neck.
Economists partly explain the continuing high rate of M3 growth by the  movement back into Germany of investment funds from Luxembourg, which have  gone into short-term deposits while awaiting a calming of the bond market.
With a hoped-for move now into relatively more attractive longer-term  deposits after the latest Bundesbank rate cuts, these funds would no longer  fall within the measurement of M3.
M3 comprises money in circulation, available deposits and deposits made  for less than four years.
When the Bundesbank last reduced its key rates on May 11 it said that it  wanted to encourage investors to make long-term deposits and thereby reduce  liquidity.
The cut in short-term rates, which are affected directly by the key  discount and Lombard rates, would normally drive investors to move into  longer-term instruments with a higher yield, analysts said. In this way the  Bundesbank hoped to reduce the rate of growth of M3 which comprises  short-term, but not long-term deposits.
Economists said that the latest figures had not surprised them.
"Owing to the volatility of bond markets investors are being cautious and  prefer short-term investments to long-term ones," Commerzbank analyst Peter  Pietsch said.
"Another economist, Heinrich Schaumburg, said that it was to be hoped that  the cut in key rates would affect the rate of growth of the money supply. He  expected the M3 figure to decline during the second half of 1994.
Pietsch recalled that the Bundesbank was not taking account of the growth  of M3 in setting its monetary policy "otherwise it would certainly not have  reduced its rates on May 11, nor on the preceding occasion on April 14".
But this attitude might merely be temporary, otherwise the bank would risk  undermining its credibility, he said.
The rate of growth of M3 and the inflation rate are the two main  indicators which the Bundesbank monitors in setting its policy.
Regarding the outlook for a further cut in rates, Pietsch noted that the  president of the Bundesbank Hans Tietmeyer has implied in his recent speeches  that the bank would pause in the light of significant cuts made since last  year. The Lombard rate has been reduced by six percent and the discount rate  by 4.50 percent.
At the Union Bank of Switzerland, Richard Reid held that the process of  reducing rates was not yet completed in Germany. "But gloomy sentiment will  persist until the slowing of inflation has been demonstrated again and until  better M3 figures are published," he said.
