As the Cannes filmfest nears its climax  Monday, the race for the coveted Golden Palm is finally narrowing, with  Poland's Krzysztof Kieslowski emerging as the frontrunner for the top award.
But, with all save a few of the 23 competition films viewed, observers  stress that no single film has proved outstanding, and that a surprise winner  cannot be ruled out.
"There really is nothing absolutely outstanding, in the league of 'Piano'  or "Concubine' last year," said one critic, referring to last year's joint  Palm winners by New Zealander Jane Campion and China's Chen Kaige.
Leaing the field narrowly, according to critics, is Kieslowski's "Three  Colours Red", the final part of his tricolour cinematic trilogy following  "Blue" and "White".
In a running poll in 'Moving Pictures' magazine, published here daily and  putting together critical ratings from around the world, the film is the only  one to score an average of eight out of 10.
The top prize for Kieslowski would bring him an unprecedented triple win:  the previous parts of the trilogy have already picked up the top prizes at the  Venice and Berlin film festivals.
The Golden Palm is to be announced Monday night at a ceremony here hosted  by French actress Jeanne Moreau. The festival jury, presided by US actor Clint  Eastwood, go into closed session to vote on the issue Monday morning.
But "Red" is not on its own. Of the films still in the running, Chinese  filmmaker Zhang Yimou's "To Live", has been widely seen as the next strongest  contender, followed by Italian Nanni Moretti's "Dear Diary".
The two films score 7.5 and 7 respectively in 'Moving Pictures'' poll of  critics.
Zhang's film, about three generations of a family living through the  Cultural Revolution, has caused a stir here not least because of the absence  of the director, who has stayed in China to protest censorship of his movie.
Another outsider for the top prize is Canadian Atom Egoyan's "Exotica", a  film of obsession which has divided critics, but attracted some strong support  from some.
Late comers which could do well in the race for the Palm include US  filmmaker Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction", premiered Saturday.
"There are a number of films which could easily be pulled from the  envelope on Monday night. 'Red' is certainly a strong film, but it is by no  means home and dry," said one critic.
Of the other major prizes to be decided Monday, firm predictions are as  hard to come by as those for the top award.
For best actor, widely-tipped is Britain's Albert Finney, for his moving  portrayal of a failed classics master in Mike Figgis' "The Browning Version",  as has Jean-Louis Trintignant as the judge in "Red".
For best actress two strong contenders are Inna Churikova in "Riaba My  Chicken" and Kristin Scott-Thomas in the Romanian entry of the competition "An  Unforgettable Summer".
Jennifer Jason-Leigh, who starred in both "The Hudsucker Proxy" by Joel  and Ethan Coen and "Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle" by Alan Rudolph, has  also been mentioned.
In last year's awards, two films dominated the festival. "The Piano" and  "Farewell to My Concubine" were widely expected to win the Palm virtually from  the start of the festival.
This year the competition has seemingly returned to form. As one critic  said: "There are some years when nothing excels; we have seen it before. Last  year was an exception. We await Monday night."
