Three decades of rule by Malawi's self-proclaimed  President-for-Life Kamuzu Banda were set to end Thursday, with the final  results of watershed democratic elections expected to confirm victory for the  opposition United Democratic Front (UDF).
With 70 percent of the vote counted, the UDF, led by former Banda aide  Bakili Muluzi, was projected to win 42 percent of the vote, ahead of Banda's  Malawi Congress Party (MCP) with 35 percent and trade unionist Chakufwa  Chihana's Alliance for Democracy (AFORD), which looked likely to get 23  percent.
Exit polls showed that no party was likely to win an absolute majority.
Analysts said that despite the slower-than-expected pace of the counting  of ballots from the 3.8 million registered voters, the outcome was not likely  to diverge significantly from the latest predictions.
Counting was suspended in some regions due to heavy rains, fuel shortages  and exhaustion among electoral officials who have gone 48 hours without sleep.
Banda's party failed to take all the seats in its stronghold in the centre  of the country, although his advisor John Tembo, widely seen as the power  broker behind the nonagenarian despot, held on to his constituency at Dedza.
So too did MCP deputy president Gwanda Chakuamba, who won another of the  177 seats up for election.
Of the 68 seats in MCP country, 15 have already gone to the UDF, according  to results released on state radio -- Banda has never allowed television into  the country.
AFORD has lived up to predictions that it would do well in the  sparsely-populated north of the country, where Chihana's party has taken all  33 seats.
The UDF has performed well in the populous south, where it won nearly 70  of the 76 parliamentary seats up for election, according to Mike Nambote, a  member of the party's election monitoring task force.
"Indications are that the UDF is leading in both presidential and  parliamentary elections and is likely to form the majority in parliament,"  Nambote said.
UDF Secretary-General Harry Thomson told a news conference in Blantyre it  expected to get between 70 and 80 percent of the votes in the south.
He called on Banda to accept defeat, and said Muluzi would address  supporters Thursday.
He said the UDF intended to form a coalition with AFORD, as the UDF wanted  to avoid giving the north the impression that it was being left out of the new  movement for change.
Nambote said that initial results from the parallel presidential race  indicated that Muluzi was ahead with 170,000 votes, followed by Banda with  95,000 and Chihana with 74,000.
In the opposition, all presidential running mates lost their races,  including Aleke Banda of the UDF and Augustine Mthambala of AFORD.
The fourth presidential contender, Kamlepo Kalua of the Malawi Democratic  Party, was reported to be performing poorly throughout the country, and  candidates from minor parties were all faring badly.
Observers said anticipated deference for Banda, who has ruled the country  with a rod of iron since independence from Britain in 1964, had not played a  role, and the partial results closely mirrored the referendum last June that  obliged Banda to abandon the one-party state.
The new constitution which came into force on Wednesday will in theory  allow the new president to choose his own cabinet, although the spirit of  compromise will have to prevail given that no one has won outright.
Rifts between AFORD and the UDF, who were at daggers drawn throughout much  of the campaign, could be healed by giving Chihana, who pioneered the fight  for democracy, the post of vice-president, observers said.
