The extradition of a former SS officer from  Argentina to face murder charges in Italy could take two years to complete,  judicial sources said Thursday.
Erich Priebke has been accused of organizing and taking part in a mass  execution of Italians during World War II. The 81-year-old former Germany army  captain has been living quietly, but quite openly, in a winter resort in  southern Argentina for 46 years.
Italian authorities have said they want Priebke tried, but they must hand  over a formal extradition request within 45 days of the German's May 9 arrest.  But judicial sources said that after that the process could take as long as  two years.
For several days Interpol officers, including two Italians, have been in  the mountain town of Bariloche, where Priebke lives and has been placed under  house arrest.
Argentine President Carlos Menem has said that if the extradition request  was in order, the former Nazi would be quickly sent to Italy. Argentina has  been criticized in the past for harboring former Nazis and dragging its feet  on extraditions.
Priebke has freely admitted in newspaper and television interviews that he  took part in the 1944 killing of 335 people outside Rome.
The massacre was ordered personally by Adolf Hitler in retaliation for a  bomb attack by resistance fighters that killed 33 German soldiers. Priebke has  admitted shooting one of the prisoners, but says the killings were an act of  war.
The last former Nazi to be deported from Argentina, where hundreds fled  after the war, was alleged war criminal Joseph Schammberger in 1990.
But it took 17 years to extradite Schammberger to Germany, who was accused  of killing 1,000 people doing forced labor in Germany and executing thousands  of Jews.
After escaping his Allied captors after the war, Priebke and his family  went to Bariloche, a small, German-style town where an unusually high number  of German immigrants live.
Priebke became a prominent local figure, running a private school and  clinic, running the German-Argentine cultural association and travelling to  Italy and the United States.
Shortly after Priebke's arrest, the local press reported that another  former SS officer, Reinhard Kopps, had fled to Chile after 40 years in  Argentina.
