A display featuring the Enola Gay, the B-29  bomber that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima on August 6, 1945, has  sparked a conflict of its own.
The display at the Smithsonian Institution's National Air and Space Museum  here features a restored Enola Gay, along with a description of events leading  up to the dropping of atom bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki three days later  that killed or injured a total of 205,000 people.
Although the exhibit does not open until May 1995, a veterans group says  draft plans for the exhibit give a grossly biased portrayal of the end of the  war with a heavy emphasis on US racism and Japanese civilian casualties.
The Smithsonian was given the Enola Gay, named for the mother of pilot  Paul Tibbets, in 1949 but let it sit outside until 1960 because of what  veterans say was a reluctance to display the aircraft.
Now, they say, the Smithsonian spent eight years restoring it for an  exhibit that portrays the Japanese as victims of World War II and the United  States as aggressors bent on vengeance.
John Correll, editor in chief of Air Force magazine put out by the Air  Force Association, says an early version showed 49 photos of Japanese  casualties and three of US casualties, five photos showing Japanese in a  military role and 65 showing US military and one aggressive anti-American  statement by a Japanese and 10 aggressive anti-Japanese statements by  Americans.
The belongings of dead Japanese schoolchildren, a ruined Shinto shrine and  charred bodies are so gruesome that curators may erect a "Parental Discretion"  sign.
"It's a matter of balance," says Correll. "I just didn't believe that the  Smithsonian would do such a thing. Guess my surprise."
Correll argues that the Smithsonian is forgetting that the atom bomb ended  the war and made a bloody invasion unnecessary. "Most of the people that I've  talked to say that heavy conventional bombing would have meant as much death  and suffering for Japanese (civilians) as the atomic bomb," he adds.
Tom Crouch, chairman of the department of aeronautics at the museum, said  the Smithsonian was taking the criticisms into account.
"These issues are really close to where people live. They define the  different ways that people look at the world," he says, adding "I think some  people would like to stop the story when the bomb left the bomb bay."
Six World War II veterans who formed a Committee for the Restoration and  Display of the Enola Gay two decades ago have collected 9,000 signatures, most  from the World War II generation and Vietnam War veterans, and sent them to  the Smithsonian's board of regents to request that the exhibit be changed.
"They have a kamikaze plane in there and they spend a lot of script time  extolling the bravery of the kamikaze pilots," says Burr Bennett, 73, a member  of the committee and reconnaissance flier in the war in the Pacific.
"There's no question that they were brave men but I can't help thinking of  a (US) sailor in Okinawa who was hit and his crew was killed and I just wonder  what he's going to think going to that exhibit," says Bennett. "I just think  that somewhere the Smithsonian has lost total touch with reality."
"Understand that from our point of view, this is in no way an exhibition  that makes judgements or casts aspersions on war-time decision. It tries to  talk about to people about a real honest way," responds the Smithsonian's  Crouch.
Asked what they would change, neither Correll nor Bennett mention the  surprise Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor or Japan's reluctance to end the war  without a fight to the finish.
"They should put the airplane on display exactly like they display every  one of the planes. They should say, 'This is the Enola Gay, the plane that  started the process of ending the war with Japan,'" says Bennett. "I've heard  from other people, Australians who were preparing to invade Malaya, and all of  us feel that the plane saved our lives."
