Two leaders of the south Yemen separatist  state said Wednesday they were ready to enter into peace talks provided  northern forces halted their offensive and withdrew behind the pre-unification  frontier.
But in Sanaa, President Ali Abdallah Saleh said the war that broke out on  May 5 between the forces of the former Marxist south and the conservative  north would continue until the "separatist gang" was wiped out.
In a statement, the two southern leaders said "the solution to the current  crisis can only be obtained after a definitive stop to the war and the  withdrawal of all forces to their positions before May 22, 1990," the date  when North and South Yemen were unified.
Once fighting stopped "we must immediately begin unconditional  negotiations under the auspices of the Arab League to reach a peaceful  solution in an Arab framework," they said in the statement run by the south's  press agency.
The statement was signed by the vice-chairman of the presidential council  of the breakaway Yemen Democratic Republic, Abdel Rahman al-Jiffri,  secretary-general of the League of the Sons of Yemen, and by the president of  the provisional National Salvation Assembly, Anis Hassan Yahia, a member of  the Yemen Socialist Party (YSP), the successor to the South Yemen communist  party.
"We are keen to stop the shedding of Yemeni blood which ..... serves only  the insane purposes of those who made this war," the statement broadcast by  Aden radio said.
It came after officials in Sanaa said they were ready to discuss a  ceasefire with southern leaders with the exception of separatist leader Ali  Salem al-Baid and Haidar Abu Bakr al-Attas, the prime minister of the state  proclaimed on Saturday by Al-Baid.
"We are ready for dialogue with leaders from the YSP who believe in  unity," Planning Minister Abdelkarim al-Iryani said.
However Saleh, quoted by the official news agency SABA, later said unity  would be reimposed even if this meant the "sacrifice of thousands of martyrs".
"After Abyan, Lahaj and Shabwa, the army of unity will shortly capture  Aden, Hadhramaut and Mahra (two eastern provinces of southern Yemen) to purge  them of the separatist gang," Saleh was quoted as saying at a meeting with  politicians, associations and trade union leaders in the capital.
"To those who say unity cannot be imposed by force, we say unity will be  imposed by the will of the Yemeni people," Saleh said alluding to statements  by Egypt and the United Arab Emirates that Yemen's unity could "not be  maintained by force".
SABA said 42 political parties, association and trade unions had vowed  allegiance to Saleh in a joint communique.
The signatories included the president's General People's Congress and its  ally in the government, the moderate Islamic party Al Islah, SABA said.
Meanwhile a southern military spokesman quoted by Aden radio reported  fierce fighting Wednesday between southern and northern forces at Zanjibar and  around the Al-Anad airbase respectively to the east and north of Aden.
The radio said "fierce clashes" took place between southern troops backed  by warplanes and northern forces at Zanjibar the capital of Abyan province 55  kilometers (about 37 miles) north of Aden.
Further north, southern forces "continued to resist northern forces  between Al-Anad and Kirsh" about 60 kilometers (40 miles) from Aden. The  southern air had "intervened massively", according tothe spokesman.
On Tuesday, the south claimed to have recaptured Al-Anad military base in  a successful counter-offensive.
In another development, al-Attas arrived Wedneday night in Cairo for talks  with President Hosni Mubarak on the situation in Yemen.
The visit - the first to Egypt by a member of the south Yemen leadership -  follows intervention by the United States which contacted Egypt, Saudi Arabia  and the United Arab Emirates to discuss arranging a ceasefire in Yemen.
Al-Attas said his visit to Cairo, which has stayed neutral in the Yemeni  civil war, was the first leg of a tour that would take him "to other Arab  states" which he declined to name.
