The 10th anniversary of the completion of the  Romanian canal linking the Danube to the Black Sea saw contractors crack open  the champagne this weekend, but it brought back the tears of political  prisoners who worked on its prototype.
The canal was dressed up as one of the late Romanian dictator Nicolae  Ceaucescu's greatest accomplishments, from the start of work in 1976 to its  completion in May 1984.
But in reality the idea came direct from former Soviet dictator Josef  Stalin, who supposedly traced a line on a map during a visit to Ceaucescu's  predecessor Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej in 1949 and pronounced: "Now there's a job  for the enemies of communism."
The line was the rough outline of the route of the canal.
Former political prisoner Constantin Ticu Dumitrescu said: "The very aim  of this construction project was to kill off opponents of the communist  regime, whether they were intellectuals or peasants resisting collectivisation  or students."
Dumitrescu spent 10 years in prison, two of them serving with chain gangs  on the canal site.
Hundreds of thousands of prisoners passed through the three prison camps  operating on the canal route up to 1953, and according to Dumitrescu, around  50,000 of them died there.
Then the day after Stalin's death, the canal project was shut down,  without any explanation.
"The conditions in the prisoners were the same as in a death camp,"  Dumitrescu recalled. "Every day, between 20 and 30 of our comrades died."
In the 1950s, any statement deemed hostile to the Soviet Union -- an  off-the-cuff remark about food shortages or a chance conversation in the  street with a foreigner -- was considered serious enough to warrant several  years of incarceration.
Adrian B, who was 26 in 1952, said: "I was picked up on my way back from  the US embassy, where I went to borrow books from time to time. She was  sentenced to six months' hard labour on the canal.
"Twelve hours a day, men and women both young and old had to break rocks,  load them into skips and then onto barges," she remembered.
Work on the canal site resumed in 1984 after a 31-year break, at the  express instructions of Ceaucescu.
Canal administration official Horia Tecuceanu said the 64.4 kilometre  (40-mile) canal, shortening ships' journeys between the Danube and the Black  Sea by 400 kilometres (248 miles), "fulfilled a real need."
He said the route, including the 28-kilometre (17-mile) stretch the  prisoners helped build, was used by thousands of Romanian and foreign vessels,  bringing in considerable revenue.
But if the organisers of the weekend ceremonies seemed entirely ignorant  of how the canal wrecked thousands of lives, Dumitrescu has not forgotten.
"The canal is one of the worst pages in the history of the communist  gulags in Romania," he said.
"I will never forget the corpses piled up in the back of lorries, the  friends I lost, the family it destroyed."
