"It is unfortunate. People were voting because Muluzi comes from the  south, Banda from the centre and so on. We are all one and should avoid that,"  he said. "Malawi is one country and there is no way we can afford to  regionalise ourselves."
Muluzi said he had not discussed with his shadow cabinet plans for a  coalition government with Chakufwa Chihana's Alliance for Democracy, which won  all 33 parliamentary seats in its northern region stronghold in parallel  elections.
His UDF will need a coalition if final results show that it has failed to  gain an outright majority of the 177 parliamentary seats.
"I don't see any problem with that. We are Malawians. We need each other,"  Muluzi said. However, he ruled out a coalition with Banda's Malawi Congress  Party.
He said Chihana was his friend and "we have fought together to bring about  democracy." Muluzi was due to be installed as president on Saturday, but  informed sources said the swearing-in had been postponed until next week (eds:  correct).
The incoming head of state said his government would examine plans to give  Banda a pension, adding jokingly of the wealthy president: "We will give him  security and a car if he hasn't any."
Muluzi said Banda had telephoned him at around 11:00 p.m. (2100 GMT)  Wednesday night to congratulate him on his victory in the elections Tuesday,  well before official results were out.
Banda also asked how long he could stay at the Sanjika Palace in Blantyre,  his favourite home since in was built with government funds in the 1970s at a  cost of around a million pounds sterling (1.5 million dollars at current  exchange rates).
Muluzi said he told Banda to stay in the palace as long as he wished,  adding he would like to reduce the number of official homes to one or two. "We  don't have enough money for all these state residences," he said.
Calm and magnanimous in defeat, Banda said in a radio broadcast on  Thursday: "I wish (Muzuzi) well as he takes up the challenging assignment as  president of Malawi."
It was time to "bury all political differences and work together for a  united Malawi," he said, calling on his supporters to "accept the defeat  honourably and gracefully."
