Deutsche Bank rejected a proposal for  an external audit of its exposure to the collapsed Schneider group on  Thursday, tried to reassure shareholders, and described payments for work in  hand as "peanuts".
The bank has been widely criticised for lax lending to runaway property  developer Juergen Schneider who owes it 1.2 million marks (727 million  dollars).
But from the outset of the shareholders' annual meeting, which was  attended by 3,200 people rather than the usual 2,500 or so, the directors  rejected the proposal from one shareholder that an external audit be carried  out.
Deutsche Bank, which is Germany's biggest bank, is also the leading  Schneider creditor.
Its president Hilmar Kopper had earlier described the 50 million marks  which Deutsche Bank will have to pay out to contractors to, and suppliers of,  Schneider projects financed by the bank, as "peanuts".
"We have come to see what he (Kopper) has done with our peanuts," a  shareholder said. "I am going to look him right in the eyes," said another.
But the Schneider scandal was finally drowned in a sea of questions on the  annual results and technical matters. The only concrete action announced was a  provision of 500 million marks.
This provision against bad debts was expected to be less than the 1.9  billion marks set aside for that purpose this year, Kopper said .
With outstanding loans of 1.2 billion marks, out of a total five billion  the property king left owing to German banks, Deutsche Bank was "neither  Schneider's financier nor his main bank", Kopper insisted.
He complained of a press campaign against the bank.
But the bank president acknowledged there had been errors in assessing the  risks attached to Schneider's loans, and indicated that measures would be  taken against those responsible when there was proof.
Deutsche Bank is making an internal inquiry into how 1.2 billion marks  could have been lent to the tycoon, who disappeared early April without  leaving a forwarding address, precipitating the collapse of his property  empire.
Results of the inquiry are expected mid-June.
Schneider announced his resignation and departure in a letter to Deutsche  Bank.
The bank also said that loans it gave for eight property sites developed  by Schneider were fully backed by mortgages.
"There have been no losses so far and there is no reason that heads should  roll," a spokesman said, denying rumours that two directors were to lose their  posts.
Deutsche Bank made a record operating profit of nearly 5.3 billion marks  for 1993, but Kopper said it it would be difficult to match that in 1994.  Results for the first four months of the year were already down by 10 percent,  he said.
The price of shares in the bank fell by nine marks to close at 776 on the  Frankfurt stock exchange in reaction to the results.
With total assets of 556 billion marks, Deutsche Bank is the leading  private bank in Europe. Institutional investors hold 58.5 percent of the  capital, with the staff holding 21 percent and private shareholders some 20  percent.
It employed 73,176 people at the end of 1993, 16,271 of these abroad.  Kopper said he expected the parent bank to shed 2,500-5,000 jobs in the next  two or three years.
