The Burmese government in exile called on  multinational oil corporations on Tuesday to end support for a pipeline,  alleging that the project had forced up to 150,000 Burmese families from their  homes and to work for the military.
The National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma, in a statement  dated May 17, alleged that 120,000 to 150,000 families had been forced to work  as unpaid "volunteers" in infrastructure projects for the pipeline in the  Tenasserim division.
About 15 villages in Ye and Yebyu townships had been relocated by  Rangoon's ruling military junta since October last year, during the first  phase of the project, the statement said.
The State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC) -- the official title  of the junta -- had also moved about 15 regiments into areas termed "strategic  zones," forcing villagers to build barracks and trenches, the statement said.
"Judging from these facts," the statement said, "the gas pipeline project  and the investment of the multinational oil companies are contributing to the  problems that the Burmese people face today."
The French Total company, Texaco and UNOCAL of the United States, and  Nippon Oil of Japan were named as major investors in the pipeline, as were  Premier of Britain and the Petroleum Authority of Thailand Exploration and  Production.
The coalition also accused Thailand, Burma's southeastern neighbour, of  having "aggravated the problems for the Burmese people" by "blatantly  pressuring the Karen and Mon ethnic groups ... to enter into separate  ceasefire agreements with the (SLORC)."
Both insurgent groups control land earmarked for the pipeline.
The coalition said the Thai army had burned down two villages inhabited by  refugees, allegedly because they "were too close to the gas pipeline project  area."
But the brunt of criticism was levelled at multinational oil companies.  The coalition warned: "Any agreement undertaken with an illegal regime will  not be honoured by the Burmese people."
The coalition is an umbrella organisation of political and ethnic groups  opposed to the current Rangoon regime.
SLORC, which came to power in 1988 after crushing a democratic movement,  authorised the holding of general elections in 1990 which the National League  for Democracy won in a landslide.
But the military refused to recognise the outcome of the poll, nor did it  hand over power to a civilian administration.
