Japan appears ready to accept specific targets in  the field of government procurement to revive stalled trade talks with the  United States.
During talks to start Thursday in Washington, the Japanese side is  expected to propose setting "some criteria" to gauge Japanese government  procurement of various products, the Nihon Keizai Shimbun said Wednesday.
Japan is seeking to meet growing US demands for market opening measures  before the summit of the Group of Seven industrial powers in Naples, Italy, in  July.
Sozaburo Okamatsu, vice minister at the international trade and industry  ministry, and Sakayuki Hayashi, deputy foreign minister for economic affairs,  are to discuss the stalled trade talks in Washington.
The proposal is considered the first compromise to reach a breakthough in  the negotiations, deadlocked since February following failed talks between  President Bill Clinton and then prime minister Morihiro Hosokawa.
The Nihon Keizai said Japan aimed at making progress in the talks by the  concession ahead of concluding more controversial fields, inlcuding car  imports and insurance businesses.
An international trade and industry ministry official refused to confirm  the report but said that "government procurement is one of the subjects close  to the goal and also one of the subjects we can directly tackle."
Another trade official said, "It appears that the US side will concentrate  on negotiations in government procurement. It is possible that we will have to  make drastic decisions to realise an increase in our procurements."
Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa hinted at a compromise earlier this week,  saying Japan "might show some numerical gauges over government procurement."
Japanese Ambassador to the United States Takakazu Kuriyama also said in  Washington Tuesday that the Japanese side was to bring "new ideas" to  Thursday's talks to reach a breakthough in the year-long negotiations.
Kuriyama told Jiji Press: "Both the US and the Japanese sides believe that  they should not leave the situation as it is. Not only the United States but  also Japan should try it flexibly."
He said that it is "important" to consider the Thursday's talks as the  start of a process leading to full resumption of the stalled negotiations.
Meanwhile, a Japanese government source welcomed remarks of Clintion's top  economic advisor who hinted at easing pressure on Japan to make specific  market opening commitments.
The Japanese source said that the US government "had made unreasonable  demands so far but now appeared to be gradually getting the situation."
Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata, forced to form the nation's first minority  government last month in 39 years, has faced fears of no-confidence motion  from opposition parties.
News reports said Wednesday that Hata was unlikely to visit Washington to  meet Clinton until he attends a summit of leaders of major industrialised  nations in Naples early July.
Clinton and Hosokawa's predecessor Kiichi Miyazawa agreed in July last  year to hold wide-ranging talks in various sectors to reduce Japan's huge  trade surplus with the United States.
But Japan has refused to accept numerical targets as part of the  "objective criteria" which both sides agree is needed to monitor progress in  the three sectors of government procurement, automotive trade and financial  services.
The government procurement talks cover computers, supercomputers,  satellites, medical technology and telecommunications.
