Saudi police laid siege to the Iranian pilgrims'  camp in Mecca on Monday to prevent them from holding an anti-US rally, the  official Iranian news agency IRNA said.
Commando units, equipped with grenade-launchers and machine-guns, arrived  in eight buses in the early hours and were stationed in front of the camp,  where the "deliverance from the infidels" demonstration is to be held on  Tuesday.
The police also prevented cars belonging to Iranian pilgrims and  organisers from entering the camp's parking lot, "even those with diplomatic  licence plates," IRNA said.
The siege followed the holding of a mass in the pilgrimage quarter in  solidarity with the Moslem people in Bosnia late Sunday, it said.
The head of the Iranian pilgrimage delegation, Mohammad Mohammadi  Reyshahri, urged for a "calm and orderly demonstration," against the United  States and Israel.
IRNA said meanwhile that the Saudi police had taken down several Iranian  flags placed on the roof of the pilgrimage quarter.
On Sunday, an Iranian religious organisation urged all Moslems making the  pilgrimage in Mecca to defy a Saudi ban and take part in the demonstration.
"We call on all pilgrims, especially politically-aware Iranians, to take  part in the demonstration as in previous years to foil the plots of enemies of  Islam," the Islamic Propagation Organisation said in a statement.
The Mecca gathering is the "best opportunity and Mecca the best place for  Moslems to express their hatred of the infidels, notably the United States and  Israel," it added.
Reyshahri has told the pilgrims that holding the rally was a "religious  must" and that everyone should participate.
Saudi authorities warned last week that they would not allow Iranian  pilgrims to carry out their demonstrations.
IRNA said Saturday that Saudi riot police had taken up positions around  the Iranian pilgrim camps in Mecca to prevent the rallies from being held.
Similar demonstrations triggered clashes with Saudi police in previous  years, the most violent being in 1987, when 400 pilgrims, including 275  Iranians, were killed. Diplomatic ties between the two countries were broken  off for three years afterwards.
The annual Moslem pilgrimage this year is to start on May 19 in Mecca, the  birth place of the prophet Mohammad and Islam's holiest shrine.
