Sunday's convincing election victory by the  reformed communists may be seen by international analysts as a retreat from  market-oriented reform, but Hungarians regard it as the light at the end of  the tunnel.
What westerners might interpret as Hungary following Poland in a nostalic  lurch to the left, Hungarians see as a hope of professional government after  four years of non-communist but incompetent rule.
The Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP) party won 208 of the 386 seats in the  new parliament, with 54.15-percent of the vote in Sunday's run-off round in  the country's second free elections since the collapse of pro-Soviet rule in  1989.
High turnouts in both electoral rounds this year -- 69 percent in the  first round and 55 percent in the second against 63 percent and 45.5 percent  respectively in 1990 -- indicated that people were longing for a change, MSZP  leader Gyula Horn said.
Horn, who is tipped to be the next prime minister, was foreign minister in  the last pro-Soviet cabinet before the country opted for market-oriented  democracy.
Even though the MSZP was formed out of the reform communists of the former  pro-Soviet state party, for Hungarians the socialist victory does not signal a  return of former communist bureaucrats.
They feel that MSZP is a different party made up of different people.
For the socialists pledged expertise and, despite their absolute majority  in parliament, promised to form the widest possible coalition based on a broad  national consensus, opening the way for liberal parties to join in government.
The "most natural coalition partner" according to Horn would be the  runner-up liberal Alliance of Free Democrats (SZDSZ), which won 70 seats.
But after the socialists emerged the winners, the SZDSZ said it now felt  free to choose whether it wanted to join MSZP or let it tackle mounting  economic difficulties alone. If mishandled, these could drive the country into  insolvency by the end of 1995, according to MSZP experts.
"Coalition is a must if no party gains an absolute majority. But if there  is a majority, then coalition is a choice", SZDSZ head Gabor Kuncze said, who  also aspires to the premiership
He said that a national SZDSZ congress would decide next Sunday, the day  after a conference convened by the MSZP to pick coalition partners and select  a prime minister.
Much could depend on that SZDSZ decision.
If the MSZP fails to achieve its goal of a broad coalition based on  national consensus, then all its endeavours to have itself internationally  acknowledged as a progressive force are in jeopardy, analysts here assessed.
The MSZP has said it would continue to press for Hungary to become a full  member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, affiliation to the European  Union and other European organisations.
"Never before has this country been so much in need of western support  than now", Horn said Sunday, adding that his first official visit if elected  prime minister would be to German Chancellor Helmut Kohl.
