Defence ministers of the North Atlantic Treaty  Organisation began a meeting here Tuesday for a twice-yearly security review  which they said would concentrate on expanding NATO's military links with  Russia.
Later in the day Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev was scheduled to  present Russia's terms for joining NATO's partnership-for-peace programme of  military cooperation with countries of the former Soviet bloc.
He was also due to unveil Moscow's long-awaited new military doctrine to  replace the Cold War security blue-print of the defunct Soviet Union.
British Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind said on arriving at the meeting:  "It is a very important opportunity for NATO to hear from General Grachev  about Russia's new military doctrine."
He added: "It will also be an opportunity to discuss Russia' relationship  with the partnership for peace and the future very constructive relationship  that we all expect to have."
Grachev said at the weekend that Russia wanted "more serious and deeper"  links with NATO" than foreseen in the partnership, which was launched in  January and has so far been joined by 16 nations of the former Soviet bloc.
But other eastern European countries are fearful of Russian influence on  NATO decision-making, particularly concerning Europe.
NATO diplomats say the alliance is ready to offer Moscow an "intensified  dialogue" but no special strategic relationship either within or outside the  partnership.
NATO is anxious to draw Russia into the partnership's web of military  cooperation. But Russia is more interested in expanding its political links  with the alliance,
German Defence Minister Volker Ruehe said: "I believe it is important that  our relationship with Russia be taken care of so that we can work together  more intensively."
Rifkind said Russia was a "very important" part of Europe which wanted  good relations with NATO.
"That is what NATO's objective is. I think it will be a very positive  relationship -- one that we will look forward to building together," the  British defence secretary added.
While Russia will be pressing for a special relationship with NATO as the  price for joining the partnership for peace, the alliance's main interest at  Tuesday's meeting is hearing about Moscow's new military doctrine.
NATO diplomats said they were anxious to hear from Grachev how the doctrine  reflects Russia's plans for dealing with the "near abroad" -- the other  countries of the former Soviet Union with large Russian minorities.
Also on the agenda for Tuesday's meeting were peace efforts in  Bosnia-Hercegovina, nuclear non-proliferation and ways to prevent the  weakening of NATO forces through defence budget cuts in member countries.
NATO member France was not present at the meeting, since it is not a part  of the alliance's integrated military structure and participates in NATO  mainly on a political level.
