President Joaquin Balaguer stayed ahead in  the vote count Thursday as he ran for a seventh term in a controversial  campaign that ended with charges and counter-charges of fraud.
With about 95 percent of the vote counted, Balaguer, a blind 87-year-old  who has dominated the Dominican Republic since the 1960s, led with 42.36  percent of the ballots or about 1.222 million votes.
Opposition leader Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, a social democrat, trailed  with 41.42 percent and 1.195 million. Former president Juan Bosch was third  with 13 percent.
Although the difference between them is just 0.95 percent, observers here  say they do not believe that Pena Gomez will be able to make up the difference.
In a preliminary report distributed in Washington, the Organization of  American States observer team said that in some cities, Dominicans with  identity cards and ballot cards were not allowed to vote because their names  did not appear on the voter registry.
OAS spokesman Steve Griner said the team of 27 observers from 15 countries  witnessed "massive disenfranchisement" in the north of the Dominican Republic.
Observers in the Dominican Republic say that there is other evidence of  fraud. About 3.3 million Dominicans were registered to vote -- about the  number of people who cast ballots. A 100 percent turnout is almost unheard of.
Electoral officials are considering allegations by Pena Gomez and his  Dominican Revolutionary Party (PRD) that changes in voting lists denied some  200,000 people the vote in Monday's election.
Pena Gomez also demanded the recusal of two members of the five-member  election board who he accused of orchestrating the fraud and is seeking new  elections in districts where voting lists were tampered with.
The head of the Dominican Republic's federal electoral board, Manuel  Garcia Lizardo, said Thursday that the election would not be scrapped under  any circumstances but a new round of balloting could be held in some areas if  serious anomalies were found.
With observers alleging widespread problems, ruling Reformist Social  Christian Party senate candidate Vinicio Castillo accused Pena Gomez of  recruiting 300,000 Haitians to vote with forged voting documents. Castillo  offered no evidence.
