A Sydney road worker arrested by police hunting  Australia's backpacker serial killer held up an English tourist at gunpoint  after giving a lift, a court here heard Monday.
Ivan Milat, 49, appeared in court as police searched his home in the  Sydney suburbs.
Seven members of Task Force Air, set up to investigate the seven  back-packer killings, inspected Milat's home in Eagle Vale, which was cordoned  off under police guard.
A massive search was continuing in surrounding areas, police said.
Milat appeared before Campbelltown Local Court charged with robbery and  using a revolver. Chief magistrate Kevin Flack said the charges were too  serious for him to allow bail. No plea was taken.
Milat, with tousled black, greying hair and a moustache down to his chin,  wore an open-necked checked shirt in court and appeared relaxed throughout the  hearing.
Prosecutor Eddie Billet alleged that an English tourist picked up by Milat  escaped running down a highway with Mila following with a revolver,  threatening to shoot.
Billett said the tourist, 24 at the time, was hitch-hiking to Melbourne  from Liverpool, south of Sydney, in January 1990 when Milat offered a ride.
As they drove south, Milat allegedly stopped the car by the Hume Highway  near the Belangalo State Forest, saying he wanted to get a cassette from under  his seat.
"The defendant pulled out a revolver from the driver's seat and pointed it  at the victim," Billett told the packed courtroom at Campbelltown, in  south-western Sydney.
"This is a robbery," Milat allegedly told the tourist, before seizing a  rucksack with clothing, a gold chain, a British passpart, an air ticket and a  camera.
The victim jumped out of the car, Billet said, and ran zig-zagging down  the road with Milat in pursuit, shouting: "Stop or I will shoot." One shot was  heard, the court was told.
Milat allegedly caught up and grabbed the tourist by the shirt, tearing a  sleeve, the prosecutor said. But the hitch-hiker ran off, stopped a passing  motorist and got a lift to a police station at nearby Bowral.
The victim, who was not identified and who had since returned to Britain,  on May 5 this year identified Milat from 13 photographs, the court was told.
Jim Marsden, defending, said Milat divorced from his wife in 1987 and  lived with his mother before moving to his sister's home in Eagle Vale, on  Sydney's south-western outskirts.
Chief magistrate Kevin Flack, of Campbelltown Local Court, adjourned the  case until May 31.
"Two words make (this case) emotive," Marsden said, while seeking bail.  "They are backpacker and Belangalo."
Belangalo forest was where the bodies of three German tourists, two  Britons and two Australians were found between 1992 and 1993.
The bodies of Britons, Caroline Clark and Joanne Walters, both 22, were  found in September 1992. In October 1993, the remains of Australian  backpackers, James Gibson and Deborah Everist, were found nearby.
The body of 20-year-old German Simone Schmidl was found on November 1,  1993 and the remains of Germans, Gabor Neugebauer and his girlfriend, Anja  Habschied, were discovered on November 4.
Hundreds of police raided properties, including Milat's home, at dawn on  Sunday before his arrest.
Two other men, aged 42 and 38, were arrested following the searches and  charged with firearm and drug offences. They were bailed to appear in court on  June 26.
