The IAEA said Saturday that North Korea had "begun  preparations" for changing fuel rods at a controversial nuclear reactor and  warned that inspectors would cut short a visit if the operation had reached a  "critical stage."
The inspectors are due to leave Vienna for Pyongyang on Sunday in order to  be Tuesday at the Yongbyong nuclear complex, 90 kilometers (56 miles) north of  Pyongyang, International Atomic Energy Agency spokesman David Kyd said  Saturday.
He said the inspectors would ascertain whether "North Korea has just  proceeded with normal preparation measures" to change the fuel rods in the  five megawatt nuclear reactor, "or whether they are already at a critical  stage" by removing seals on the fuel.
"If the North Koreans are already at the critical stage, the IAEA  inspectors will be recalled to Vienna, but if the work is normal, the  inspectors' work will continue," Kyd said.
South Korea on Saturday aired worries over North Korea's telex to the IAEA  saying Pyongyang was preparing for the change of fuel rods without outside  inspectors present.
"It is extremely regrettable that North Korea gave notice of its decision  to prepare to go ahead with the rod change on its own," a foreign ministry  statement said.
The United States has warned that Pyongyang could extract enough plutonium  from the spent fuel to make four or five nuclear bombs. Washington says it is  vital that North Korea allow inspection and sampling of the rods.
The foreign ministry statement added that South Korea hoped the IAEA could  clarify the situation when its monitors leave for North Korea this weekend.
"We stress the crucial importance of sampling and securing the rods as  demanded by the IAEA and remind North Korea that the nuclear problem should  not be taken to a destructive phase by unilaterally changing the fuel rods."
According to Kyd, the trip was expected to last eight days but could be  extended if necessary. He also confirmed Friday that North Korea had responded  positively to an invitation from the IAEA to hold talks on narrowing  differences on the scope of inspections.
In Washington, State Department spokesman David Johnson indicated Friday  that a third round of high-level talks with Pyongyang hinged on the outcome of  the new IAEA inspections.
Johnson said Washington would consider setting a date for the talks after  the inspections were completed.
Plans for the third round of talks were called off when the IAEA said in  March their inspectors had not been given full access to the sites they  weanted to visit, including a crucial radio-chemical laboratory.
North Korea contended then that the UN nuclear watchdog had tried to go  beyond its mandate.
Kyd said Saturday that the inspectors, leaving to examine the  radio-chemical laboratory, were not scheduled to inspect the reactor.
But he said they "will have access to the five megawatt reactor to  undertake maintenance work, including notably changing batteries and film."
"There they would see whether the reactor is in the same state as in March  or whether the North Koreans have removed the seals" on the fuel, he said.
