Argentina, dubbed villains of the 1990 World Cup,  will aim to make the critics eat their words by taking advantage of a weak  first round group and go on to win their third world title.
The South American champions won few friends as they continually  complained about decisions, feigned injury, and cynically cut down opponents  in reaching the Italia '90 final.
And coach Alfio Basile will be fully aware Argentina, who have won two  World Cups and been runners-up once in the last four events, have age against  them this time.
They must surely qualify from their group, including newly-crowned African  champions Nigeria, Bulgaria and Greece. But father time may catch up on them  in later rounds as all departments contain former heroes in the twilights of  their careers.
Diego Maradona, continues to hog the media limelight, but for all the  wrong reasons. At 33 he is unlikely to be fit or fast enough to worry top  defenders.
Maradona, banned from playing for 15 months for taking cocaine, was  recently denied a visa for Japan in his latest high-profile incident. He was  issued with a three-month American visa on May 11 to enable him to compete in  the World Cup finals.
Keeper Sergio Goycochea is 30, experienced and key defender Oscar Ruggeri  is 32, and there must be a doubt about the effectiveness of Claudio Caniggia  -- the livewire striker who was Argentina's best performer in Italy.
Caniggia has only just finished his own 13-month ban for cocaine use.
A goal in his comeback appearance for AS Roma, in their 3-1 friendly  victory over River Plate on May 9, proved he has not lost his old touch but it  will take more than a few friendlies for him to regain true match sharpness.
Whatever Argentina do however, most interest will centre on how Maradona  fares.
Sacked by Sevilla last season, Maradona officially retired, but then  revived his career at Newell's Old Boys in his native country.
Lack of motivation in training, and general loss of interest in football  led him to leave the club after five months and seven games.
Incredibly, he then turned a water hose and air gun on reporters the day  after reports that two big Buenos Aires teams, Boca Juniors and San Lorenzo,  were interested in him.
