GATT Chief Peter Sutherland on Thursday  urgently appealed to the United States not to backtrack from its approval of  the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), following reports that  Congress could delay ratifying the global trade pact.
"To me it will be incomprehensible and inconceivable that Congress will  not approve it," Sutherland told reporters after holding talks with Malaysian  International Trade and Industry Minister Rafidah Aziz.
"It is vital that those who entered into the Uruguay Round and  subsequently concluded it live up to the undertaking that it would come into  force on January 1, 1995," Sutherland said.
Sutherland said he still believed the United States would ratify the trade  pact because "the United States has been a driving force since the last war in  developing the principle of free trade."
US Commerce Secretary Ron Brown was quoted as saying Monday that "in the  politically-charged atmosphere of this election year, congressional approval  can still be blocked by a small group of people who are frightened of the  future."
Brown had called on business leaders to help convince legislators to  approve the Uruguay Round of GATT signed by more than 100 nations in Marrakesh  last month.
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen also warned Monday that "we're going to  pass GATT but it's not going to be easy."
"It is fair to say that if the major trading powers and the significant   number of others are not in a position to proceed, the World Trade  Organisation (WTO) will not be able to come into existence as originally  planned," Sutherland warned.
The WTO will replace the Geneva-based GATT, which has operated on an  interim basis since 1947, and will have greater enforcement power in  international trading relations.
Sutherland, who arrived here Monday to address the 27th Pacific Basin  Economic Council international general meeting, had expressed concern over  scepticism that US could delay ratifying the GATT accord during his talks with  Rafidah.
"He (Sutherland) is very worried that the US is not going to ratify the  accord and everybody should now impress upon Congress not to use the Uruguay  Round as a bone of contention with the US President," Rafidah said.
"The US Congress cannot play around with it, so to speak," Rafidah said,  adding that the impression she got was that Washington was "giving less focus  on the Uruguay Round than the North American Free Trade Agreement."
NAFTA, which began on January 1, calls for trade barriers separating the  United States, Canada and Maxico to be dismantled within 15 years.
Sutherland said: "If the world were to be left to ... regionalism without  an overall umbrella of multilateral trade structure, we will be heading for a  very dangerous situation."
