Hundreds of mourners joined in the funeral here  Wednesday for the victims of Monday's missile attack, as diplomatic efforts  intensified to end the three-week civil war in Yemen.
Crowds lined the streets of the capital as nine bodies in white shrouds  were carried on stretchers from the central mosque to the At-Tahrir (Freedom)  cemetery. "Death to Ali Salem al-Baid," many chanted.
Forces loyal to Baid, who proclaimed an independent state on Saturday with  its capital in the southern port of Aden, have since May 5 been fighting  troops backing President Ali Abdallah Saleh here in the north.
The nine dead included three children, one of them a toddler buried next  to its mother. At least four other people were reported killed and more than  100 wounded when the missile destroyed homes and damaged a hospital here on  Monday.
Officials here have meanwhile begun contacts with senior representatives  of the southern Yemen Socialist Party (YSP) in a bid to find a political  solution to the conflict, Planning Minister Abdelkarim al-Iryani said.
"We are ready for dialogue with leaders from the YSP who believe in  unity," Iryani said, ruling out any negotiation with Baid and former prime  minister Haidar Abubakr al-Attas.
The government was ready for a ceasefire provided YSP leaders recognised  Yemeni unity and "the legitimate authority," Iryani said.
Iryani said Baid's forces were still receiving arms supplies through the  southern port city of Mukalla and the nearby airstrip at Rayyan.
"The source is known -- it's the former socialist countries," he said,  naming the suppliers as Ukraine, Bulgaria, Hungary and "probably" Russia.
He said no decision had been taken "to simply start bombarding" Aden. "We  want to give a political solution a chance before we enter Aden."
In Cairo, an Egyptian diplomat said the United States had contacted Egypt,  Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in an effort to help broker a  ceasefire between the rival leaders.
The aim of the US-led mediation was to "preserve Yemen's unity without  resorting to force," the diplomat added.
"There is still a chance of ending the fighting in Yemen," he said.
US charge d'affairs Edmund Hull said after talks with Egyptian Foreign  Minister Amr Mussa that Cairo and Washington were trying "to obtain a  ceasefire in Yemen and facilitate the opening of talks between the two  protaganists."
A US diplomatic source said Mussa and Hull discussed "practical steps to  end the fighting and encourage political dialogue." He said the United States  was "very concerned by the situation in Yemen."
A southern military spokesman said southern troops had "pushed back enemy  units towards the western border of South Yemen" in the region of Kharaz-Bab  al-Mandeb on the Gulf of Aden.
The spokesman said the the north had lost "thousands of dead and wounded"  in the battle.
Earlier a military spokesman in Aden said more than 400 northern soldiers  had died during a southern counter-offensive northwest of Aden on Monday in  which southern troops recaptured Al-Anad where the south has a large air base.
Northern troops reportedly seized Al-Anad on May 17.
Radio Aden also said southern warplanes had carried out air raids against  enemy forces in the oil-producing province of Shabwa east of Aden where  northern forces have made a breakthrough.
In Geneva, the International Committee of the Red Cross said it had  evacuated 800 Somali refugees from the Yemen war zone to sites well away from  the fighting.
Yemen was formed in 1990 with the unification of the conservative, tribal  North and Marxist South.
