The World Cup as an event ranked behind events such as the Iditarod Sled  Dog race and the Little League World Series in spectator interest.
Rothenberg said brisk sales of tickets and World Cup paraphernalia belied  those figures.
"One way you can measure interest is ticket sales, and when they flock out  and spend money to buy tickets way in advance of the event, that's one  indication," he said. "I think we'll have the public with us that month June  17 through July 17.
"The public is out there buying merchandise, and that means they want to  be identified with what we're doing."
Organizers also point to the huge numbers of young football players as  proof the game has an audience here, but Nye Lavalle, head of Sports Marketing  Group, said that was not necessarily so.
"One of the things they're counting on to make the World Cup go is the  huge number of kids playing," Lavalle said. "What we learned long ago through  research is you can't use participation data to predict spectator data.
"People play a sport for exercise or social interaction or emotion,  whatever. But they watch and attend sports for entertainment."
The NBA offers a fast-paced action orientated game with a lot of scoring.  The National Football League offers the spectacle of bone-crushing tackles as  300 pound linemen run down ball carriers.
Even baseball, with its desultory lulls, provided a 16-14 World Series  victory by Toronto last year.
When the action on the playing field fails to mesmerize, American sports  packagers fill the gap with mascots, cheerleaders, free giveaways and  promotions like the one in which a Chicago basketball fan won a million  dollars for sinking a shot from the far end of the court.
In Dallas, home of the Super Bowl champion Cowboys, none of five matches  scheduled had sold out as of mid-May. But Dallas spokeswoman Chalese  Stachowiak was optimistic.
"I still think there are sports fans out there who haven't realized they  have the opportunity to buy a ticket to the world's greatest sporting event."
