US veterans returned a collection of war souvenirs  at a ceremony here Wednesday to help Vietnam account for some of its 300,000  people still missing from the conflict that ended nearly two decades ago.
Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA) handed over briefcases containing  identity cards, photographs and burial maps that could help uncover the fate  of as many as 1,800 missing Vietnamese.
"We are handing back these documents in recognition of the continuing  suffering of the families from both nations who still do not know the fate of  their loved ones," VVA president Jim Brazee told a group of Vietnamese  veterans and army officers.
"There is a native American saying that 'Anything taken in anger and pain  must be returned to free one of that pain,'" Brazee said.
Among the objects returned were Viet Cong grave markers, a helmet  inscribed with the name of a North Vietnamese soldier that was taken from his  body and kept as a momento and a family photo album belonging to a North  Vietnamese lieutenant killed in Cambodia.
"Much of the evidence is not pleasant," Brazee said of photographs of  Vietnamese killed in combat. "But we hope it will be useful to help identify  your dead."
VVA launched its "Veterans' Initiative" earlier this year to encourage  former US service personnel to scour their attics for any war souvenirs that  could help the Vietnamese in their own MIA search.
"It was a painful process for many veterans to give this information but  it was also part of a healing process," he said.
VVA is hoping that Vietnamese veterans will respond by handing over any  evidence that could help the search for the 2,234 US MIAs.
Vietnamese veterans welcomed the handover, saying they shared the concern  for families who lost members on both sides and would urge people to hand over  any evidence.
The enormous number of Vietnamese MIAs and the country's limited resources  have meant that accounting for them has not been a priority for Hanoi,  although Vietnamese often conduct private searches for family members.
MIAs have been a major concern of veterans groups who have a powerful voice  in the US Congress and the government since the war ended in 1975.
A special US military Joint Task Force mission is based in Hanoi and  conducts regular searches for MIAs together with Vitnamese authorities.
So far the group has returned 606 sets of remains to the United States of  which 285 have been positively identified, according to US officials.
But the vast majority of MIAs are pilots who disappeared often over the  sea or dense jungle and little hope is held that their remains will ever be  recovered.
The MIA mission now concentrates its efforts on about 70 so-called  "discrepancy cases" where the missing personnel were last seen alive.
VVA is attempting with its latest intiative to set up non-governmental  links to Vietnamese veterans to speed up accounting of US MIAs and exchange  information on poisons in defoliants sprayed across the south of the country  by the United States during the war.
Brazee appealed Tuesday for cooperation to investigate the effects of the  dioxin poison used in the Agent Orange defoliant that has reputedly led to  widespread birth defects in children of veterans of both sides.
VVA is regarded as one of the more moderate of the US veterans  associations but it opposed the lifting of the US trade embargo on the grounds  that it could weaken Hanoi's resolve in the search for MIAs.
Washington lifted the trade ban in February, citing progress in the search  and since then officers leading the MIA Task Force have praised Vietnam's  continued assistance.
