Right-wing Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi scraped  through a Senate confidence motion by a single vote Wednesday, effectively  giving him the green light to run Italy's 53rd post-war government.
The cliffhanger vote on his government, which includes five neo-fascists,  sets the stage for Berlusconi to get down to work as premier because his  coalition has a comfortable majority in the Chamber of Deputies, so the  confidence vote there on Friday is seen a formality.
Senate speaker Carlo Scognamiglio said that of 314 senators casting votes  in the 326-seat chamber, 159 were in favor, 153 against and two abstained. An  absolute majority of those voting was 158.
Berlusconi squeezed through after four centrist senators left the chamber  rather than vote. Under Senate voting rules, he needed a majority of those  present, not a majority of the total of 326 seats.
The centrists' party, the former Christian Democrats who now call  themselves the Popular Party, immediately suspended those senators pending a  decision by party superiors.
Controversy leading up to the vote had centered on the presence of five  neo-fascists in Berlusconi's 25-member cabinet, with centrists calling on him  to dump them in exchange for their support in the confidence vote.
Berlusconi leads a rightwing coalition that swept to victory in elections  in late March that confirmed the demise of corruption-tainted traditional  parties like the Christian Democrats and Socialists.
The coalition allies of his Forza Italia party are the neo-fascist  National Alliance and the federalist Northern League.
Earlier in the day Berlusconi, a media magnate-turned politician, rejected  calls from conservative and centrist senators to get rid of the neo-fascists.
If Berlusconi had failed to muster the needed votes, his government would  have collapsed, forcing President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro to ask him either to  form a new cabinet or call new elections that could plunge the country into  crisis.
Although he won the vote Wednesday, his government remains fragile because  of the lack of a majority in the Senate. Former senate speaker Giovanni  Spadolini said, "it is going to be very difficult to govern, and both the  government and the legislature are going to need to show much wisdom."
