China forecast Wednesday its economy would expand  by 12 percent in the first half of 1994, an announcement that made its goal of  pegging growth and inflation to below 10 percent look increasingly unrealistic.
In a report carried by all major newspapers, State Planning Commission  spokesman Wei Liqun said industrial output would grow by 18 percent from  January to June over the same period last year, while fixed asset investment  and consumer sales would rise by 30 and 22 percent respectively.
A western economist said the forecasts suggested China would have  difficulty bringing 1994 growth below 10 percent. Growth last year was more  than 13 percent.
"In the first quarter, they said 12.7 growth was a seasonally adjusted  figure in line with real growth of about 10 percent. There's not much  seasonality in the first six months, so it's a good indicator of where they  are really going," he said.
Wei was however upbeat about figures for the first four months of the  year, saying they reflected the success of reforms implemented in recent  months in the hope of cooling down the overheated economy.
Industrial output grew 16.4 percent in the first four months over the same  period last year, while fixed asset investment rose 38.4 percent, Wei said.  The figures were down from some 25 percent and nearly 70 percent respectively  between January and April last year.
The official said the slowdown in fixed asset investment had created a  stable supply of raw materials, predicting that this would help bring down  inflation in the second quarter of the year.
Inflation was running at 20.1 percent nationwide and some 26 percent in  big cities in the first quarter.
However, the economist said China was unlikely to come anywhere near its  target of bringing annual inflation down from some 13 percent in 1993 to below  10 percent this year, despite efforts to control the rate artificially by  reimposing price controls.
"Twelve percent economic growth really is too high to be consistent with  bringing down inflation," he said, adding that the true aim of China's present  anti-inflation policy seemed to be to stop it going any higher.
