Queen Beatrix formally has appointed three party  officials to negotiate a broad coalition government for the Netherlands,  thrown into political turmoil after this month's general election.
The negotiators will be Klaus de Vries for the Social Democrats (PVDA),  Gijs van Aardenne for the right-wing Liberal Democrats (VVD) and Jan Vis for  the left-wing Democrats '66 (D66).
Receiving the three at the Noordeinde Palace in The Hague late Saturday,  the Queen asked them to "explore in as short a period possible the  possibilities of forming a cabinet" from the three groups.
De Vries has been director general of the federation of Dutch local  councils since 1988. A lawyer who has worked in the justice ministry, he was a  member of parliament from 1973 to 1988.
Van Aardenne is a former minister of the economy, who was also deputy  prime minister in the first cabinet of Ruud Lubbers from 1982 to 1986.
Vis has chaired the D66 parliamentary group in the Senate, of which he has  been a member since 1980. A former journalist, he teaches constitutional law  at the university of Groningen.
If the negotiators manage to reconcile the differences between their  parties they will present a final report to the Queen, who will then decide  who should be asked to form a government and become the country's next prime  minister.
The left-right coalition, if it comes off, will be the first time the  Christian Democrats (CDA), have been left out of power for 75 years.
But analysts said that despite the goodwill expressed on all sides, it  would not be easy to set up a left-right coalition because of wide differences  over certain issues, notably social security.
If talks break down, the outgoing coalition could return with the addition  of the D66 Liberals, or the Christian Democrats could make an alliance with  the VVD and D66.
The Christian Democrats lost 20 seats in the vote on May 3, retaining only  34 in the 150-seat lower house of parliament.
Their partners in the last government, the Social Democrats, lost 12 seats  but became the biggest parliamentary party with 37 seats. The VVD gained nine  seats, putting their tally to 31, while D66 doubled its score to 24 seats.
