Hong Kong governor Chris Patten on Friday praised  the US decision to extend China's most favored nation (MFN) trading status  despite a lack a progress on human rights abuse.
"We in Hong Kong are all delighted with this decision by the Clinton  administration", Patten told a press conference.
"We are concerned with human rights abuses but we have never believed the  solution is in limiting trade. Opening up markets is the best way of opening  up minds", he said.
Patten, who has been meeting here this week with Prime minister John Major  and other officials, said: "There has never been a good case for mixing  politics and economics, human rights and trade.
"We look forward...to a growing and cordial trading relationship between  China and the United States. That's greatly in our interest in Hong Kong.
"I'd like to express without any qualification my gratitude and the  gratitude of Hong Kong for a decision which I know will have reflected in part  an understanding in the American administration of the impact we would have  had to bear had the decision been other than it's turned out to be."
"I trust that the difficult but welcome decision that Mr. Clinton has  taken will underline the importance of pursuing goals along proper channels.
"It is not that human rights are not important," he said, "but entangling  them with trade does not make sense. That has been our position for years".
He said he saw no relationship between the US decision on MFN and Hong  Kong's own debate over human rights.
"We are determined to secure the human rights set out in terms in the  Joint Declaration Bill of Rights," he said, but added, "There are, of course,  different views about how that is likely to be best achieved."
Patten said a decision by the Hong Kong legislative council on the  controversial creation of a Human Rights commission, before the colony reverts  to China in 1997, would be made in the following weeks.
In Hong Kong, Chief Secretary Anson Chan called Clinton's decision to  sustain MFN while delinking trade from human rights "good news for Hong Kong."
"We know that the US administration took into account Hong Kong's concerns  and we are grateful for that," said Chan, who went to Washington last month to  lobby for unconditional MFN renewal.
As the foremost portal for Sino-US trade, thriving Hong Kong had risked  seeing its 5.5 percent growth rate slashed by up to three percentage points if  MFN been been revoked, according to government estimates.
Between 50,000 to 75,000 Hong Kongers would also have lost their jobs.
"That loss has now been avoided," said Hong Kong General Chamber of  Commerce director Ian Christie.
