The Nigerian junta on Friday appealed for people to  vote Monday for delegates to a constitutional conference and not to start  another "national crisis" in heeding a boycott call by pro-democracy groups.
Information Minister Jerry Gana asked union leaders, pressure groups,  prominent politicians and rights movements "to choose this path of peace and  reconciliation, instead of generating another national crisis."
At a separate press conference, however, another powerful political group,  known as the Middle Belt Forum, dismissed the election as a "charade" and  added its voice to those of the regime's opponents.
Forum members, who include leading political figures from central states  in the Nigerian federation, said they endorsed last Monday's call by the  National Democratic Coalition, for a boycott of both the poll and the  conference.
The broad-based coalition said General Sani Abacha, who seized power in  November, should by May 31 invite the presumed winner of presidential  elections annulled last year, Moslem tycoon Moshood Abiola, to form a  government or face mass protest.
Two Middle Belt Forum representatives and former state governors, retired  Air Commodores Dan Suleiman and Jonah Jang, released a statement Friday saying  that Monday's vote was a "charade" designed to perpetuate military  dictatorship in Nigeria."
Gana, however, said that the constitutional debate, planned to begin on  June 27, would be an "enlarged family meeting" where discussions would be held  and "basic conclusions" reached on Nigeria's democratic future.
"A peaceful conference to resolve our national problems is surely better  than another serious national crisis," he said. "Be a patriot, show that you  love democracy by coming out to vote."
The government this week sent Yoruba members in the cabinet to the ethnic  Yoruba heartland in the southwest, in a bid to win support from key  traditional rulers in the region, where the boycott call has been intensified.
The military also declared next Monday a public holiday in an attempt to  encourage voters to turn out en masse to choose delegates to electoral  colleges in each of Nigeria's 30 states and the federal capital territory,  Abuja.
These in turn will select, in separate polls on May 28, a total of 273  delegates to attend the conference itself. The government plans to make 96  appointments to the body.
The ward elections had previously been planned for Saturday, but were  pushed forward by two days because the date clashed with the Moslem feast of  Eid-el-Kabir (Abraham and Isaac).
Nigeria's Anglican archbishop, Abiodun Adetiloye, has called on the regime  to hand over power to "democratically elected" president Abiola, whose claimed  victory at the polls was annulled by then military ruler Ibrahim Babangida.
General Babangida alleged fraud in the elections, though international  observers had adjudged them free and fair.
The Campaign for Democracy, a coalition of some 40 pro-democracy and human  rights groups, is planning three days of protest ceremonies as from June 12 to  mark the first anniversary of the annulment of the poll.
People will be asked to wear black in mourning, and church services and  candlelight processions will be staged in major cities, the campaign's  secretary-general Sylvester Odion-Akhaine said this week.
