Barcelona manager Johan Cruyff reckons his team  cannot fail to win the European Cup after his title-winners' latest miracle in  the Spanish league.
Barca, who face AC Milan in Wednesday's cup final in Athens, won their  fourth consecutive championship on Saturday night -- and their third victory  to be sealed on an amazing final day.
They cut it fine this time, winning on goal difference after thrashing  Sevilla 5-2 before 95,000 adoring fans, while long-time leaders Deportivo La  Coruna finished 0-0 with Valencia after missing a late penalty.
Barcelona had won their previous two titles after leaders Real Madrid were  beaten on both of the last days, ironically by the same club, Tenerife.
Cruyff said: "I never gave up hope when I heard that Deportivo had a  penalty. Everyone thinks that it's easy, but I knew that it would be difficult  for Miroslav Djukic because he had the weight of all Galicia on his shoulders.
"At a time like that, 11 metres seem more like 110."
However, the Dutchman paid tribute to his rivals, saying that "Deportivo  have had a great season", while Depor's president Augusto Lendoiro accepted  that Barcelona were the rightful champions.
According to Cruyff, the key to their 1994 triumph was being walloped 6-3  by Real Zaragoza in February.
"We were hurt," he admitted.
But Cruyff's deputy, Rexach, added: "We have great mental strength, a  winner's self-belief. We showed it last week at Madrid last week (beating Real  1-0) and we showed it again on Saturday."
Barca's devastating sprint to the finish, after an uncertain start to the  season, saw the Catalan club earn 28 points out of 30 in their last 15 games.
It's a performance which Cruyff believes will see them in good stead on  Wednesday night.
"To have won so many matches for the past three months, I ask myself how  we can lose the European Cup," he said.
Deportivo's Serb libero Djukic missed his penalty just two minutes from  the end.
The club's agony was deepened by the fact that they had been on top of the  league for 25 weeks -- and that the title would have given their first  domestic trophy in their history.
