China said Sunday its new foreign trade law had  established a transparent and uniform national system in line with the two  basic demands of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
In addition to standardising policy, the long-awaited law, which was  passed last week, requires that any management of foreign trade be carried out  in line with rules set by GATT, which China is seeking to rejoin, the China  Daily Business Weekly reported.
Any restrictions on imports and exports of commodities and technology must  conform with GATT rules, while protection of domestic industries must be  achieved through measures like anti-dumping and anti-subsidy safeguards rather  than import substitution or administrative approval, it said.
The law also stipulates that all foreign trade enterprises be weaned off  subsidies and be responsible for profits and losses.
"With the law, a uniform, fair and free trade policy has taken shape in  China," Minister for Foreign Trade and Economic Co-operation Wu Yi was quoted  as saying.
China, which was a founding member of GATT but withdrew after the  communists came to power in 1949, is seeking to rejoin the body before it is  replaced by the World Trade Organisation on January 1, 1994.
GATT chief Peter Sutherland said here last week that China's time-frame  was "extremely demanding," pointing to continuing doubts over the transparency  of its foreign trade regime, especially its policies on import quotas,  licences and standards.
The new law stipulates that China can restrict imports to balance trade,  while also containing provisions to protect the service sector from free  competition, the China Daily said.
The sector would only be opened to foreigners on a gradual and conditioned  basis, it said.
The authorities will also continue to license foreign trade enterprises to  prevent the sale of substandard products overseas at unreasonably low prices  and the repeated import of the same product.
"If the licencing system is abandoned, China's foreign trade would be in a  mess," said Wu.
