Senior officials of the United Nations, the US  administration and members of Congress used a Senate hearing Friday to  denounce the havoc abandoned land mines are causing civilians.
"Every month, at least 1,200 people, mostly innocent civilians who have  nothing to do with any war or conflict, are killed or maimed for life by these  tiny, silent explosives," said Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont, who led the  hearings.
Ken Rutherford, a relief worker, recalled how he was maimed when his  vehicle hit an anti-tank mine in Somalia in December.
"The Land Rover lurched forward a little, and the inside filled with  dust," he said.
"I slowly looked at Duale (the driver), whose face was covered with dust,  then down to my feet.  I saw a white bone sticking out where my right foot  used to be. At first, I wondered if it was Duale's bone or mine. It was mine."
More than a million people, most of them civilians, have been killed or  wounded by mines since 1975. An estimated 100 million of them are still  planted in about 60 countries and about 1.2 million are in arsenals around the  world. About 50 countries produce some 300 types of mines, and about 30  countries export them.
Sadaka Ogata, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, explained that the  presence of mines were hurting UN efforts to moved people displaced by war  back to their homes.
"Bringing people back to their countries, we have to make sure that the  roads to go back are safe," she said, noting that the United Nations have  stepped up their education and prevention efforts.
Ogata singled out Afghanistan, where each year 4,000 people are killed and  4,000 wounded by mines. Guatemala, Somalia, Iraq, Mozambique, Cambodia are  other countries that are most affected by the problem, she said.
"Nobody puts money in mine clearance research," said retired general  Patrick Glagden, director of the United Nation's mine clearing program. At the  same time, modern mines are made of plastic and escape metal detectors.
"I'm losing this war," he said.
Thomas McNamara, a senior State Department official in charge of  politico-military affairs, said it would be extremely difficult to ban mines,  especially since they are not considered illegitimate weapons as is the case  with chemical or biological weapons.
