Troops from the mainly Moslem Bosnian government  have stepped up attacks on Serb-held positions in northern Bosnia, UN  Protection Force spokesman Matthew Nerzig said here Tuesday.
The spokesman said there were indications the fighting near Tesanj, a  Moslem-held town, "could represent a significant increase in offensive  actions" by the Bosnian army.
A woman was meanwhile killed and one person injured when a bus travelling  under UN protection from the Bosnian capital to nearby Visoko was fired on  from Serb-controlled territory, UN spokesman Major Rob Annink said.
The woman was hit in the head when the bus was raked with small arms fire  in mid-morning. The vehicle was being escorted by a UN armoured vehicle.
A UN spokesman said two Serb tanks also fired on Bosnian army positions  within the UN-imposed heavy arms exclusion zone around the Bosnian capital  Sarajevo. The tanks reportedly "fired from Mazovici, just inside the total  exclusion zone."
UN military observers reported "heavy shelling and fighting" around  Maglaj, another Moslem town 15 kilometres (10 miles) south of Tesanj. A  spokesman said the fighting was "a possible attempt by the BiH (Bosnian army)  to gain ground west of the Maglaj pocket."
Further north, Brcko, under Serb control, had Monday experienced a second  consecutive day of shelling believed to have been launched by Moslems.
"There were 10 impacts recorded last night in Brcko," a UN spokesman said.  "We have seen some significant shelling into Brcko and this is largely  believed to be the shelling of the BiH side into the town."
Unconfirmed reports suggested the shelling was designed to cut electricity  supplies to Brcko, situated in a corridor linking Serb-held territory in  Bosnia and Croatia to Serbia proper.
Exchanges between Serb and Croat forces were also reported at Orasje, a  Croat pocket of land northwest of Brcko.
Elsewhere, Bosnian troops shelled the northern Serb-held town of Doboj for  the second day in a row Tuesday afternoon, causing material damage, Belgrade's  Tanjug news agency said.
Doboj, with its population of 20,000, is an key regional rail hub. Tanjug  said five people were injured in two rocket attacks on the town Monday.
The agency added the Bosnian army had stepped up operations around the  Serb-held town of Teslic, some 20 kilometres (12.5 miles) southwest of Doboj,  and also along the Ozren-Vozuca section of the front.
The clashes coincided with the latest round of international mediation  efforts in Geneva and France.
Tanjug additionally reported that Moslem forces last week seized Vijenac,  the most strategically important section of Mount Ozren, which towers over  Tuzla and separates the regions of Tuzla, Maglaj and Zenica, all  Moslem-controlled.
The Serb daily Politika said the Serbs lost some 20 men in the Bosnian  push in the region, where some 75,000 Serbs are surrounded by Bosnian forces,  according to Serb Major Milovan Stankovic, quoted by the Borba daily.
Last year's internationally-mediated peace plan, signed by Serbs and  Croats but rejected by the Moslems, had earmarked the Ozren area for the  Moslem camp.
