Philippine monetary officials Thursday called for  calm following a multi million dollar securities scam, but admitted that the  losses were much bigger than earlier thought.
The Monetary Board (MB) said in a statement after an emergency meeting  that it "assures the public that the banking system is stable" and that "there  is no reason to panic."
"Only two banks have been affected and these banks are solvent and  fundamentally sound," added the MB, the country's highest monetary policy body.
A scandal erupted Tuesday after it was disclosed that Bancapital  Development Corp. (Bancap), an unlicensed trader, went bankrupt before it  could deliver Treasury bills already paid for by banks buying on the secondary  market.
Officials of the firm went missing, and have been placed on a police  watchlist. Immigration agents are under orders to prevent them leaving the  country.
The MB statement said "the amount that appears to be involved" was about  938 million pesos (34.7 million dollars), much higher than the earlier  estimate of 559 million pesos.
One of the victims, the Bank of Commerce, has sought a 500 million peso  emergency loan, putting up its buildings and receivables as collateral, but a  bank spokesman said there was no run on its branches.
"It is just a question of liquidity," Central Bank governor Gabriel  Singson told journalists.
A vice president of the Bank of Commerce, Reynaldo Feliciano, killed  himself Tuesday. Police said the suicide could be linked to the financial  scandal, but fellow bank officers blamed it on personal problems.
The MB, stressing the limited damage of the scandal, said the total  resources of the Philippine banking system reached 1.29 trillion pesos, while  total capital amounted to 121 billion pesos, at the end of 1993.
It reiterated that "all possible remedies allowed by law" will be used by  the Central Bank "to support any and all banks which may undergo liquidity  constraints" as a consequence of the fraud.
The other victim is unidentified, but Singson said it is a "non-commercial  bank," fueling speculation that it is a government institution.
However, the Government Service Insurance System (GSIS), the state pension  fund, clarified reports that it was one of the victims.
It said Capital One, an investment house in which GSIS is an incorporator,  bought Treasury bills from financial institutions affected by the fraud, but  the GSIS investments in the firm amount to less than a million dollars.
Press reports here say three Bancap executives have fled abroad, but this  could not be independently confirmed. President Fidel Ramos has ordered that  suspects be barred from leaving the country.
Prominent congressman Juan Ponce Enrile, who also heads a business  conglomerate, demanded Thursday a congressional investigation of the "national  financial disaster" and denounced the Central Bank and Securities and Exchange  Commission for failing to smell trouble.
"I cannot understand why this has happened without the prior knowledge and  attention of our financial managers," he said, calling for legal reforms to  institute policy safeguards and sanctions on government and bank officials  responsible for such problems.
