North Korea reiterated Saturday it might allow full  inspections at a suspect nuclear plant if Washington agreed to a package deal  on the nuclear standoff.
A North Korean foreign ministry spokesman told the Korean Central News  Agency (KCNA) the North was willing to "actively strive to ensure the  transparency of our nuclear activities and do the utmost as ever to find a  final solution to the nuclear issue through the DPRK (North Korea)-US talks."
The official KCNA agency, monitored here, also quoted the spokesman as  reiterating North Korea's "unique status" whereby the hardline communist state  was not fully subject to safeguards inspections under the Nuclear  Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).
In Pyongyang, the North Korean Workers Party newspaper Rodong Sinmun on  Saturday defended the decision to go ahead with the controversial refuelling  at the five-megawatt Yongbyon reactor.
It said the move was necessary to prevent economic losses and radioactive  leakages, adding the country would never allow samplying of the fuel rods by  the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) "no matter what others say and  what counter-action they may take."
In what was seen as a signal to Washington it added that "the most  reasonable solution" was to preserve "all the replaced fuel rods under the  surveillance of the agency and measure them when the nuclear problem is solved  in a package deal."
Pyongyang wants an end to US-South Korean "Team Spirit" war games and  improved ties with the United States in exchange for cooperation in ending the  nuclear standoff.
Washington has maintained that it was prepared to hold a fresh round of  talks with Pyongyang so long as it was still possible for the IAEA to confirm  that no plutonium had been diverted for weapons.
The IAEA admitted failure Saturday in its attempts to monitor the  refuelling.
"The Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) rejected all IAEA  proposals put forward with the aim of maintaining the IAEA's ability to  select, segregate and secure fuel rods for later measurements so as to be able  to verify the history of the reactor core, specifically to verify whether this  is the first core," the statement said.
"The DPRK continued to maintain that it could not accept the IAEA  verification measures proposed.
It said two senior agency members who had travelled to North Korea would  return to Vienna Saturday, but that two other inspectors would remain behind  to await further developments.
IAEA director general Hans Blix said earlier in a letter to UN Secretary  General Boutros Boutros-Ghali that North Korea had resumed refuelling at the   reactor, defying the international inspectors and making it impossible to get  a full accounting of weapons-grade fuel.
