Ecologists lauded Friday the  International Whaling Commission's decision to creat a huge whale sanctuary in  the Southern Hemisphere but Japan blasted the move and suggested it might  withdraw from the organization.
Casandra Phillips of the World Wildlife Fund said the protection zone  would help ensure the survival of the largest marine mammals and bring an end  to commercial whaling.
Robbins Barstow, a leading activist for the protection of whales, said the  decision reverses hundreds of years of decimation of the whale population.
Greenpeace said it would save thousands of whales each year.
But Kazuo Shima, the Japanese delegate who cast the sole dissenting vote  in Thursday's decision, called the decision "political without scientific  basis."
In Tokyo Japanese government and fishing industry officials denounced the  move and said the government would study its options on compliance.
"We have options ranging widely from withdrawal from the IWC to  unconditional acceptance of the decision," a senior official of the state  fishery agency told reporters.
The plan, approved late Thursday, creates a no-hunt zone south of the 40th  parallel in the Southern Hemisphere, which runs south of Australia and Africa.  It dips to 60 degrees south at South America to spare Chilean and Argentine  waters. The Indian Ocean was declared a whale sanctuary in 1979.
Despite a 1986 moratorium on commercial whaling, Japan, Norway and Iceland  have been hunting whales in the hundreds for "research purposes" to determine  the stock of cetaceans.
But such operations are denounced by ecologist groups, including  Greenpeace, as commercial whaling in disguise.
Violating the new ban could be punishable by trade sanctions.
Among those whales protected by the sanctuary are the estimated 1,000  remaining blue whales, which grow to 30 meters (100 feet) and can weigh 150  tonnes, and some 12,000 humpback whales.
The no-hunting zone would also benefit the much smaller minke whale, which  has replaced the blue and humpback as a target of Japanese and Norwegian  whalers.
Twenty-three countries approved the plan at the 46th meeting of the  whaling commission, which ended Friday at this Mexican resort.
The ban is based on a French plan first proposed in 1992.
Norway, which had fought to continue whaling, was absent from the vote and  six nations abstained, including China.
Environmental groups have estimated that the populations of some of the  hardest hit species of whales -- such as the blue and humpback -- have been  reduced to just five percent of their populations in the past century.
France had originally proposed a total ban on hunting whales below the  40th parallel.
The Japanese argued that such a ban actually would be harmful to the  environment because it would leave the minke whale population unchecked. An  estimated 750,000 minke whales already eat roughly five times the amount of  fish humans catch.
Japan had sought authority to continue hunting up to 2,000 minke whales a  year, maintaining that it would not threaten the species, which is prized as a  delicacy in that country.
