France swept to a surprising victory  over the United States, and Russia - without the help of their star player  Yevgeny Kafelnikov - defeated Germany in the World Team Cup on Thursday.
Pete Sampras put the United States ahead against France, but the defending  champions ran into trouble when Michael Chang was beaten 6-4, 7-6 (8/6) by  Arnaud Boetsch.
The Frenchman has recently been sick and had not played for more than two  months, but the intensive fitness training he has undergone paid dividends.  His tactic was to be patient, and not try and beat Chang at his own game.
"I knew I couldn't win against him from the baseline, so I played solidly  and attacked at the right moments," he revealed.
Chang, ranked nine places higher than Boetsch at eight, was not too  concerned at his defeat.
"Arnaud played very good tennis, and some matches you're going to win and  some you'll lose," he said. "It was a bit frustrating because I was up 5-2 (in  the 2nd set), but my concentration level was up and down and that hurt me."
Sampras defeated Cedric Pioline 6-3, 7-6 (7/3), but he faced the prospect  of being taken to a 3rd set as Pioline held two break points for a 5-1 lead in  the 2nd set.
Both players became upset by an electronic net cord machine which appeared  to register the ball clipping the net when it had not, and at 4-1 in the 2nd  set it was turned off.
"I got off to a good start but got frustrated with the machine and my  tennis suffered a little bit," said Sampras. "But then I recovered my  composure and played a good tiebreaker".
Chang's defead proved costly, as Patrick McEnroe and Richey Reneberg then  lost the deciding doubles 6-4, 3-6, 6-1 t Boetsch and Olivier Delaitre. But  with the round robin format of the tournament, Germany and the United States  will meet on Saturday.
Alexander Volkov, who had lost his last five meetings against Michael  Stich, emerged with a 6-4, 7-6 (7-5) victory to put Russia in front, and  Andrei Chesnokov had little difficulty in dismissing Bernd Karbacher 6-2, 6-2.
