General Motors (GM) laid a complaint  of disloyal management against its former vice president for Europe Hans  Hueskes in Zurich in December, the GM subsidiary Opel said on Wednesday.
Opel spokesman Bruno Seifert said that the case had nothing to do with  allegations by GM that its former purchasing director Jose Ignacio Lopez de  Arriortua had committed industrial espionage when he moved to take the number  two management job at Volskwagen (VW) in March 1993.
Hueskes, who has for many years been a friend of Lopez, has alleged that  GM put pressure on him to be silent about the Lopez dispute.
GM did not provide details of its allegations against Hueskes, who has  German nationality and who left the company a few months ago.
In the case concerning VW, GM has alleged that Lopez took confidential  documents with him when he suddenly transferred to take a similar post at VW  in March 1993
"As General Motors Europe is based in Zurich in Switzerland, the complaint  is a matter for Swiss law but the facts are not straightforward either under  German law," Seifert said.
This was a reference to a sentence in the statement by his company that  "the prosecutor in Zurich is investigating leads which point towards  companies/box numbers in Liechtenstein."
GM had laid the complaint "following an internal enquiry involving  telephone tapping, in conformity with Swiss law, and after consultation with  Swiss lawyers", the company said.
It said that it was making the statement in the light of a quite different  version given by Hueskes to the German magazine Stern to be published on  Thursday.
Hueskes alleged in the article that the GM management had asked him for an  undertaking that he would be silent about the case concerning Lopez. He had  opposed this and said that from August 1993 he had warned lawyers for GM and  for Opel that they should not expect a judicial investigation against Lopez,  and three collegues who had followed him to VW, to lead anywhere.
Hueskes, who spent 36 years with GM, held that documents taken by Lopez  were "crap" and that "they are of no use".
The prosecutor in Darmstadt said at the end of April that files seized in  the office of Lopez or at the home of his close colleagues, were strangely  similar to confidential GM documents.
The prosecutor has not completed the investigation.
The allegations against Lopez have developed here into an economic and  crime thriller.
At the beginning of the week, following revelations in the weekly magazine  Der Spiegel, Opel said that it had used private detectives to work on its  allegations of industrial espionage. This had been justified by the need to  carry out an internal enquiry and the prosecutor had been informed of the  outcome, it said.
VW said that the prosecutor had not included this information in  precedural documents, but the prosecutor denied this.
Lopez and VW have consistently rejected all of the allegations.
