He is also scheduled to meet with Defense Secretary William Perry, the  Joint Chiefs of Staff, Vice President Al Gore and Commerce Secretary Ron Brown.
He is planning to meet with Secretary of State Warren Christopher,  although it was not clear Sunday if Christopher would be back in time from his  current Middle East tour.
Rao departs the United States on Friday.
His visit comes at a time of US-Indian tension over a number of issues,  notably India's ambitious nuclear and missile programmes, Kashmir, human  rights and trade.
Washington is urging both India and Pakistan to put a cap on their nuclear  programs in the interests of non-proliferation in the region.
But Rao is under tremendous domestic pressure to resist US calls to cap  the nuclear program and freeze its missile defence programme, and the  Washington trip is his most controversial foreign visit in three years in  office.
Rao announced shortly before departing for the United States that India  was suspending the planned test Saturday of the new Prithvi missile, sparking  strong criticism that he was bowing down to US pressure.
The carrot for Pakistan in agreeing to cap its nuclear program is the  possibility of obtaining delivery of F-16 fighter planes it has already paid  for but which were frozen by Congress.
With India there is not such obvious quid pro quo, but there are areas in  which the United States could offer more help, such as science and technology  transfers, US officials say.
In any case, "the bottom line in all this is that you can't buy agreement  either from Pakistan or India on nuclear proliferation issues if they are not  persuaded that this is in their own best security interests," one said.
There has also been friction over Kashmir, with India feeling that the  administration of US President Bill Clinton favors Pakistan in the dispute and  has tacitly encouraged the Moslem insurgency in Kashmir.
Washington denies that Clinton has shifted policy on Kashmir, and says it  is a matter of Indian perception.
