The United Democratic Front of newly-installed  President Bakili Muluzi (eds:correct) failed to secure a majority in  parliament, according to the official results of Malawi's first multi-party  poll released Sunday.
The results, published the day after Muzuli's inauguration ended three  decades of iron rule by outgoing head of state Hastings Kamuzu Banda, gave his  UDF 84 seats in the 177-member legislature, the electoral commission said,  five short of an overall majority.
Banda's Malawi Congress Party secured 55 seats and the Alliance for  Democracy 36 seats.
Five other formations -- the Malawi Democratic Union, Malawi National  Democratic Party, Congress for Second Republic and United Front for  Multi-Party Democracy -- failed to win a seat.
In the presidential poll, Muluzi won 1.4 million votes, 47.16 percent, to  996,353 or 33.45 percent for Banda.
Chakufwa Chihana of the Alliance for Democracy polled 562,862 votes (18.90  percent) ahead of Kamlepo Kalua of the small Malawi Democratic Party who took  15,624 votes (0.52 percent).
Some three million of the 3.8 million registered voters took part in teh  ballot, the commission said.
However, electoral commission official Charles Joyah told AFP that the  parliamentary vote had been declared void in two constituencies in Nsanje, in  the south, including that of Gwanda Chakuamba, a senior figure in the Malawi  Congress Party.
"This follows the commission's investigation of complaints of  irregularities in these constituencies," Joyah said.
The commission had discovered that voting figures kept by monitors at one  polling station did not tally with the official figures.
"Some important documents like ballot paper counterfoils and original  forms for resuylts were missing," he added.
Joyah said by-elections would be held in the affected constituencies,  which had originally been won by MCP candidates.
Despite the incidents, the elections were generally proclaimed free and  fair by international observers.
