Britain and Spain Thursday joined France in raising  the possibility of a reassessment of the UN military presence in ex-Yugoslavia  in the absence of progress toward peace, saying troops could not stay forever.
British Foreign Office Minister of State Douglas Hogg said the Bosnian  Moslems "have to recognize military defeat when it stares them in the face...
"They have got to accept...that the military option has to be  abandoned...that land had been seized by force and there is going to have to  be a degree of acquiescence in that.
"I recognize this is extraordinarily unpalatable," he told a private group  Wednesday night in remarks reported Thursday.
"Time is running out," he said. "We have eight weeks or so" to see  positive developments in the peace process.
A Foreign Office spokesman stressed that Hogg was not referring to a  withdrawal of troops within any set time limit.
"We think there is now a window of opportunity," said the spokesman. "If  it is not used, our presence will be seen as ineffective."
Spanish Defense Minister Julian Garcia Vargas meanwhile said in Madrid  that it was "probable in the coming months we may consider reducing our troops  in Bosnia...The UN peacekeepers cannot stay on a mission forever."
On Wednesday, French Defense Minister Alain Juppe had said France "cannot  leave our UN peacekeepers indefinitely (in Bosnia) if the people they are  trying to help have governments that don't want peace."
France has warned in recent days that it would consider pulling out its  6,800 troops stationed in the former Yugoslavia unless there was a  breakthrough in the peace process within six months.
French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur said 800 French troops deployed at  Glina in Serbian-held Krajina in northern Croatia would be withdrawn by June  15, and that 1,200 troops at Bihac would be deployed elsewhere in the region.
Britain has about 3,000 troops in ex-Yugoslavia and Spain about 1,500.
Juppe said Wednesday that the foreign ministers of Russia, the United  States and five western European countries would hold a meeting on  Bosnia-Hercegovina June 13, but he did not say if they would meet in Geneva as  they did last Friday.
The British Foreign Office spokesman said Hogg's remarks had been made in  the "spirit" of the French position, that the UN military deployment in  ex-Yugoslavia could not be indefinite.
The two-month period cited by Hogg, said the spokesman, was "merely a  guideline and did not mean a precise deadline had been set by anybody."
"Any eventual withdrawal of British troops would be in close coordination  with our partners," said the spokesman.
British Defense Secretary Malcolm Rifkind on Tuesday had warned that the  British UN continugent in Bosnia should not be taken for granted.
