The Russian parliament was to examine Tuesday a  presidential decree that widens a state of emergency in the embattled Caucasus  to encompass regions considered by the rebel republic of Chechnya as its  territory, ITAR-TASS reported.
The upper house of parliament, the Federation Council, was to debate the  President Boris Yeltsin's order declaring a state of emergency on the region  of Sunja and imposing direct Moscow rule on the region of Malgobek.
The two regions located west of the Chechen capital of Grozny, became  disputed border areas after the former republic of Chechen-Ingushetia was  divided into two separate republics in 1991.
The border between Chechnya and Ingushetia has never been defined.
The Chechen foreign ministry said in a statement sent to the media Tuesday  that the two regions were "integral part of the territory of the Chechen  state" and accused Moscow of attempting to resolve its differences with  Chechnya through the use of force.
Chechen authorities placed their troops on alert last week and warned that  publication of the decree would be "considered by Chechnya as an act of  military aggression".
The decree stated that the two regions were part of the neighboring  Caucasus republic of Ingushetia where the state of emergency was imposed over  a year ago after fighting broke out between ethnic Ingush and Ossetians.
Yeltsin last fall sent border troops to Chechnya and imposed an economic  blockade on the republic in a bid to force Chechnya into submission to Moscow.
Chechnya has been described by presidential aides as the "epicenter of  Russian crime" and "a major drug and arms trafficking center which threatens  the entire Caucasus region".
The tiny Moslem republic declared independence from Moscow in the fall of  1991 and has since ignored all federal authority on its territory.
Tension has mounted in the past days between Moscow and Grozny after  Chechen leader Djokhar Dudayev escaped from a car-bomb attack last Friday  which
Chechen authorities claim was mounted by Russian secret services.
Three Chechen officials including the interior minister were killed in the  explosion and Dudayev's wife and son were hurt.
