The Channel tunnel will begin commercial operations  this week with a first paying trip by a freight shuttle, Anglo-French  operators Eurotunnel announced on Monday.
A Eurotunnel board meeting held Sunday took the decision following issue  of an operating certificate by an Anglo-French commission on Saturday for  freight trains operated by British Rail and the French railway company SNCF  and for the shuttle, transporting goods vehicles.
Eurotunnel did not give an exact start date, saying only that the first  freight shuttle would leave before Thursday.
Eurotunnel chairman Andre Benard said Monday the certificate meant that  "Eurotunnel has solved all technical and security problems" for the tunnel's  operation.
The board meeting also said freight trains could begin running this week,  but the SNCF said it would need at least three weeks to charter them and that  the first SNCF-British Rail goods train would pass through the tunnel on June  13.
SNCF and British Rail wagons are to be loaded onto special transporters.
Benard said Eurotunnel's negotiations with the banks for an injection of  new capital had been "difficult" because "we were not in effective operation."
He said: "Now that we are in operation, negotiations can resume on a  different basis." Eurotunnel hopes to raise at least 850 million dollars.
Passenger trains and shuttles for private cars will start in June,  Eurotunnel confirmed, adding that tests were continuing. But Eurotunnel said  the board meeting noted "the excellent quality of crossings at full speed from  the point of view of both comfort and silence."
Eurotunnel plans to pay its first dividend in 2003 with net income  reaching 886 million dollars in 1995 and 1.23 billion in the following year.
The company is counting on taking 22 percent of cross-Channel passenger  traffic by 1995, or 16.31 milion passengers, and 28 percent or 21.78 million  passengers by the following year, travelling either on the shuttle or on  direct trains.
As for freight, Eurotunnel hopes to take 11.4 percent of the market or  11.4 milion tonnes by 1995 and 15.6 percent or 16.01 million tonnes in 1996.
