Not far from Tallinn, where Baltic  countries met this week for talks on nuclear security and other issues, the  Estonians are still waiting impatiently for the green light to dismantle two  Russian nuclear reactors from a former Soviet naval base.
For four decades, Paldiski, one of the Soviet navy's most important Baltic  bases, was a "closed town" off limits to all but military personnel.
When it was finally reopened to civilians last year in the wake of  Estonia's independence, many buildings abandoned a year or two before by the  Russians had already been wrecked by looters and lack of maintenance.
Three years ago, 11,000 people, most of them Russians, lived at Paldiski,  40 kilometres (25 miles) from Tallinn.  Since then, with the departures of  Russian troops the town's population has declined dramatically.
Its 3,800 inhabitants now live in a small area round the command centre  and the two experimental nuclear reactors which are all that is left of the  Soviet base.
The Estonians are keen to see the last of the Russian troops and to set to  work dismantling the reactors so they can make the town theirs once again.
"We have been ready since the end of March," said Colonel Raoul Luks,  commander of Estonian troops now quartered in the town.
He said his men would have the task of supervising the dismantling of the  reactors and their rail transport back to Russia.
But talks between Estonia and Russia on the withdrawal of all former  Soviet troops have stalled over the conditions of retired Soviet soldiers  living in Estonia, with Moscow demanding guarantees on the benefits they will  receive.
Since the talks broke down, nothing has moved from Paldiski.
Only three out of ten wagons destined to carry the reactors' radio-active  fuel rods have arrived at the nuclear plant. The 200 Russian specialists are  awaiting the go-ahead from Moscow before going to work.
"As long as the Russian army is here, Paldiski cannot be considered an  Estonian town," said Juri Tikk, a special government envoy in the area.
Jaan Molder, the new mayor of Paldiski who was only appointed this month,  has great plans to provide a "better quality of life" for his town though he  has not been able to move there yet.
There are only 150 Estonians in Paldiski but Molder is already talking of  reopening at Christmas the Estonian church which the Russians turned into a  warhouse and to open an Estonian school in the autumn.
He said several dozen Estonian families were ready to move to Paldiski and  were only waiting for the Russians to vacate the base.
But the former military town which was kept spruce by the Soviet army  personnel is now falling into disrepair.
The large blocks of flats, the homes once used by students of the  submarine pilots' school, are deserted and decrepit. Not one of the dozen  barracks, looted by scrap metal merchants, is fit to live in.
The town which was under military administration for decades has only two  factories, one of which is on the verge of bankruptcy.
Optimists see the best hope for the future in developing Paldiski's port  facilities and would even like to turn it into a holiday resort.
The southern harbour where Soviet submarines used to moor has been taken  over by Tallin port authorities and two rusting fishing boats were tied up at  the quayside.
North of the town, the authorities have just finished clearing the docks  of the wreckage of four Soviet torpedo boats stripped and sunk by looters.
The town's single restaurant now looks as though it has been bombed out.
In what was the officers' mess, Russian Nikolai Zaitsev has reopened his  small cafe from which the Russian army removed all the furniture last autumn.
Zitsev is one of the optimists. He sees a "glowing future" for Paldiski  and is currently installing an open air terrace in readiness for the long  summer nights ahead.
