The agreement to resume "framework" trade talks  between Japan and the United States came as good news for Japanese industries  adversely affected by the rising value of the yen.
Japanese and US officials said Tuesday that the talks aimed at cutting  Japan's huge chronic trade surplus with the United States, stalled since  February, would be resumed soon.
"We rate it highly because it does not require numerical targets to be  set" in slashing the Japanese surplus, said a business manager of Nippondenso  Co., a major motor vehicle parts maker.
"It will help improve Japan-US relations," an executive of a major  Japanese electrics firm said.
Japanese Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa said at a news conference that  "objective criteria" other than numerical targets would be used in measuring  the openness of the Japanese market.
The framework talks collapsed earlier this year because of persistent US  demands for Japan to set numerical targets in bringing down its trade surplus.
In February, then Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa told US  President Bill Clinton at talks in Washington that Japan could not accept the  American demands as exact target numbers would undermine the free trade system  and lead to managed trade.
Japan's export-oriented industries, including carmakers and electric  companies, have been hit hard by the yen's sharp appreciation which followed  the February collapse of talks between Hosokawa and Clinton.
Clinton revived the controversial Super 301 clause of the US trade act in  March, threatening to impose economic sanctions against Japan over the trade  imbalance.
Kakizawa said Tuesday that he did not think Washington would take punitive  action against Japan because the two countries were now set to resume  framework talks.
The Japanese foreign minister said that a basic agreement was reached to  give priority to discussions on Japanese government procurement of medical and  telecommunications equipment, cars and related parts, and the insurance  business in the new rounds of framework talks.
Japan first agreed to hold framework talks last July, following mounting US  pressure on the country to provide greater market access to foreign products  and services.
The administration of Japanese Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata is to announce  market-opening measures, including economic deregulation, before the end of  June.
Observers said they believed the agreement Tuesday would lessen pressure  to raise the value of the yen in an effort to slash Japan's trade surplus.
A high yen helps boost Japanese imports by making them cheaper for  Japanese to buy, but weakens the competitiveness of Japanese products overseas.
Hata agreed with Clinton by telephone late Tuesday to renew efforts to end  the bilateral trade dispute when they meet in Naples, Italy in July, official  sources said.
They will be there to attend a summit of the Group of Seven (G7)  industrialized countries, which also includes Britain, Canada, France, Germany  and Italy.
Hata was quoted as telling Clinton in the 15-minute telephone conversation  that their frank talks would lead to the settlement of bilateral trade issues,  while Clinton said the two countries would head in the right direction under  the accord Tuesday.
Before the G7, Kakizawa and US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor will  hold a meeting in Paris in early June, government sources said.
