Former Tory MP Alan Clark is at the center of a  scandal here following allegations that he seduced the wife of a South African  Judge as well as the man's two step-daughters.
The judge, James Harkess, his wife, Valerie, 57, and one of his  step-daughters, Josephine, 34, arrived in Britain Tuesday bent on "setting the  record straight."
For that, they have hired the well-known publicist Max Clifford, who has  already set up several "exclusive interviews" for the family.
Clark, 66, is said to have had a 14-year affair with Valerie Harkess and  her two daughters from a previous marriage, Josephine, and Alison, 36.
The family has been living in South Africa since 1977 but the move  apparently did not prevent Clark, from pursuing the affairs with the trio.
The scandal erupted last weekend when the Harkess family decided to tell  all to the British tabloid News of the World.
"I have been bitterly traduced by people whom, many years ago, I held in  affection and trust," Clark said Monday adding that he had no "intention of  taking part in any kind of stunt prepared by a national newspaper to enhance  its circulation."
But the Harkess family sees the matter otherwise.
The judge, who told the News of the World that he would like to see Clark  horse-whipped, said he intends "to set the record straight, not only for my  own family's sake but also.. at this critical time in what is going on in  Britain  for the sake of a lot of people."
"I feel that certain people in the present government and the recent  government are rotten to the core and I think this should be brought out."
His step-daughter, Josephine, said the family was "selling the story.
"We have been offered a lot of money, we're not idiots or a charitable  organisation," she said. "We are going through enormous personal trauma.
"We could have sold this story years ago when he was in power and we would  have got an awful lot of money."
The other step-daughter, Alison, is now married to Sergei Kausov,  ex-husband of Christina Onassis and former KGB agent and lives in the chic  London district of Knightsbridge, with homes in Geneva, Bavaria and Mustique.
Clark, who was a junior defence minister under Margaret Thatcher, quit his  MP post in 1992. He has a reputation in Britain as a womanizer.
Valerie Harkess said the publication of Clark's memoirs, in which he  alludes to his affair with the three women, prompted her to confess to her  husband, who was unaware of the affair, and to hire Clifford to protect the  family's  interests. The diaries, which refer to the three women as "the  coven," are soon to be published in South Africa.
Clifford represented the actress Antonia de Sancha after her affair brought  down the former Tory minister David Mellor. He also represented Bienvenida  Buck when she revealed her affair with Sir Peter Harding, the former chief of  the defense staff.
