More than 200 pilgrims, mostly Asians  and Africans, were killed in a stampede as disaster struck again at the annual  Moslem pilgrimage to Mecca, officials and witnesses said Tuesday.
Saudi authorities said the pilgrims were trampled to death in stifling  heat on Monday during a ritual known as "stoning the devil" in Mina, a town 10  kilometres (six miles) east of Mecca, in the east of the kingdom.
"Dozens of bodies lay on the ground," a witness said.
Officials from Indonesia, the world's most populous Moslem nation, said  252 people died. Most of the casualties were from Bangladesh, Egypt, India,  Pakistan, Turkey and several African countries.
Mehmet Nuri Yilmaz, a Turkish religious affairs official attending the  pilgrimage, told the Turkish news agency Anatolia that 182 people had died,  including four Turks.
But witnesses said more than 200 were killed and hundreds more injured.  Mecca hospitals said they were unable to give a precise toll because many of  the casualties were taken out of the city.
Iran's Kayhan daily, quoting its correspondent in Mecca, reported that 700  people had perished, including six Iranians.
The newspaper in Iran, which has had sharp religious and political  differences with Saudi Arabia, said 130 other pilgrims had died for various  other reasons during the pilgrimage.
That would give a total virtually identical to the 829 issued by the Saudi  authorities as the overall number of deaths for the whole pilgrimage.
The tragedy occurred because too many pilgrims had crowded into a small  area where pilgrims say prayers and throw pebbles at three stellas, or  standing stones, representing Satan, the ministry added.
A record 2.5 million people participated in the three-day event which  follows the feast of the sacrifice, or Eid al-Adha.
Workers responsible for looking after the stella removed the first victims  as ambulances were held up by the chaos and only reached the scene after  security forces cleared a path, witnesses said.
Police later closed the tunnels leading to Mina, including the one where  more than 1,400 pilgrims, mainly Indonesians and Turks, died in a stampede in  1990.
The incident occurred as the Saudi authorities were proclaiming the  successful completion of this year's pilgrimage.
The health ministry said "a total of 829 people died during the pilgrimage  season this year, as a result of this afternoon's stampede and for other  reasons such as heart attacks and old age."
It also said that 6,400 received hospital treatment because of sun stroke  and after fainting.
Before news of the stampede, King Fahd had sent a message to Pilgrimage  Minister Mahmud Ben Mohamed Safar praising the "success" of the annual event.
The pilgrimage to Mecca, which all Moslems are expected to perform once  during their lives if they can afford it, officially began on May 20 this year  but pilgrims began arriving several weeks beforehand.
Besides the tragedy in 1990, a clash between Iranian protesters and Saudi  security forces in July 1987 near the great mosque in Mecca left 402 dead,  including 275 Iranians, according to officials here.
The incident led to a break in relations between Tehran and Riyadh, which  were restored in 1991.
In November 1979, some 250 armed men opposed to the Saudi government holed  up for two weeks in Mecca's grand mosque before being dislodged by security  forces, leaving 153 dead and 560 wounded, according to official sources.
