Bosnia's Moslem-led army has stepped up  offensives on several fronts, UN officials said Thursday, as western  governments issued fresh warnings that they will pull their peacekeepers out  of Bosnia unless serious peace negotiations resume.
UN Protection Force spokesman Rob Annink said the Bosnian army was  strengthening its positions on both the eastern and western fronts in central  Bosnia and "feels ready to launch an attack" against Serb forces.
He said the heaviest fighting Thursday was around Brgule, Olovo and  Kladanj, towns located between Sarajevo and the northern city of Tuzla, where  UN military observers counted up to 200 explosions Wednesday.
Annink said despite the shelling in downtown Tuzla, a UN-designated  "safe-area," there were no reported injuries.
The UNPROFOR has not been allowed to visit the combat zone, he said.
In other developments, a UN plane made two safe flights in and out of  Tuzla airport Thursday, UN spokesmen said. On Tuesday Bosnian Serb artillery  shelled the airport when another UN plane landed there, forcing it to take  right off again. It had been the first flight there since April 14.
A third flight was expected to arrive later in the day.
The plane Thursday brought in equipment, including radar, for UNPROFOR,  and on its second trip out of Tuzla evacuated 14 people -- five needing  medical treatment and nine of their family members.
The mainly Moslem Bosnian army handed over control of the airport to  UNPROFOR on March 22.
Annink said the larger Bosnian army has an advantage over the Serbs along  the eastern front because the hilly terrain favors ground troops over the  Serbs' stronger artillery.
"The Bosnian army is an infantry army while the Bosnian Serbs have mostly  artillery," Annink said.
He said the army would have a tougher time along the western front where  the Serbs control the high ground overlooking the town of Turbe.
But, he added, the army has managed to concentrate its troops in the region  thanks to the federation plan signed in February between the country's Moslems  and their former Bosnian Croat enemies. The pact has allowed the government  army to redeploy troops from previous zones of conflict with the Croats.
The upsurge in fighting came as Britain and Spain joined France in raising  the possibility they will pull their peacekeeping troops out of Bosnia in the  absence of progress toward peace.
British Foreign Office Minister of State Douglas Hogg said the Bosnian  Moslems "have to recognize military defeat when it stares them in the face...
"I recognize this is extraordinarily unpalatable," he told a private group  Wednesday night in remarks reported Thursday.
"Time is running out," he said. "We have eight weeks or so" to see  positive developments in the peace process.
A Foreign Office spokesman stressed that Hogg was not referring to a  withdrawal of troops within any set time limit.
Spanish Defense Minister Julian Garcia Vargas meanwhile said in Madrid  that it was "probable in the coming months we may consider reducing our troops  in Bosnia...The UN peacekeepers cannot stay on a mission forever."
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said Wednesday that France "cannot  leave our UN peacekeepers indefinitely (in Bosnia) if the people they are  trying to help have governments that don't want peace."
Juppe said Thursday in Paris that the foreign ministers of Russia, the  United States and five western European countries may hold a meeting on  Bosnia-Hercegovina June 13.
He said the meeting may be decisive in terms of future French policy in  Bosnia.
France has warned in recent days that it would consider pulling out its  6,800 troops stationed in the former Yugoslavia unless there was a  breakthrough in the peace process within six months.
Britain about 3,000 troops stationed in ex-Yugoslavia while Spain has  1,487.
Danish Defence Minister Hans Haekkerup said Thursday that Denmark had  protested to the United Nations about a UNPROFOR refusal to provide close NATO  air support for the Nordic battalion stationed at the airport during Tuesday's  attack.
Meanwhile the plane that landed Thursday was to evacuate six injured  people and 14 of their family members to the Croatian town of Split later the  same day, Annink said.
