Japan's Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. Ltd. said  Friday its consolidated pre-tax earnings tumbled 21 percent from a year  earlier to 128 billion yen (1.24 billion dollars) in the year to March.
The world's biggest consumer electronics concern --  better known by its  National, Panasonic and Technics brand names -- said worldwide sales dropped  six percent to 6,624 billion yen in the same period.
Matsushita forecast a sharply higher group profit of 190 billion yen for  the current year with sales edging up to 6,630 billion yen.
But the Osaka-based company, which also owns the MCA entertainment company   in the United States, was cautious in its outlook.
"The domestic economy finally appears to be coming out of a protracted  slump but its future course still seems uncertain. In addition, the business  environment does not warrant optimism in view of trade friction, the strong  yen and tougher competition," the company warned in a statement.
In the latest year, domestic sales fell six percent to 3,362 billion yen  while overseas sales also dropped six percent to hit 3,262 billion yen.
"Recovery was seen in our exports of audio-visual equipment to China and  Southeast Asia, and in almost all areas with exports of electronic devices.
"But exports of audio-visual equipment to Europe remained stagnant which,  along with the stronger yen, contributed to an overall decrease in exports."
Matsushita said the success of the box-office smash hit "Jurassic Park"  contributed to an increase in entertainment revenues although sales in this  division declined in yen terms because of the stronger currency. "On the  whole, revenue from music and theme parks was brisk," the company added.
During the year, worldwide sales of video equipment dropped nine percent  to 1,306 billion yen. Sales of audio equipment also fell nine percent to reach  538 billion yen as sales of home appliances plunged 11 percent to 838 billion  yen.
Sales of communication and industrial equipment eased three percent to  1,640 billion yen, sales of electronic devices fell one percent to 829 billion  yen and sales of batteries and kitchen products dropped five percent to 347  billion yen. Other sales fell five percent to to 539 billion yen.  Entertainment revenue was down three percent at 587 billion yen.
