stable then lower. The price of aluminium moved little during  most of the week, but dropped lower to around 1,351 dollars per tonne at the  end of the week on lower copper, traders said.
The market was also disappointed by the lack of significant drawdowns in  LME warehouse stocks following a series of producer cutbacks announced earlier  this year.
Data released by the International Primary Aluminium Institute showing a  fall in average daily production in April was welcomed by the market, but  there has been no evidence that lower output has yet affected world  inventories.
Elsewhere, a decree by Russian president Boris Yeltsin, scrapping most  export quotas and licences by July 1, did not apply to aluminium, according to  a top Russian government official.
Western traders said high Russian aluminium sales were also depressing  world prices. Russia and other producing countries have agreed to cut output  to curb oversupply, Russia by an annual 500,000 tonnes over the next two years.
A management buy out at Alusuisses 130,000 tonnes-per-year aluminium  smelter in Essen, Germany also depressed prices. The plant is currently  operating at under 25,000 tonnes per year, but this will rise to 90,000 over  the next few months under the new company Aluminium Essen GmbH.
Weekly stocks on the LME rose 5,125 tonnes to a record 2,660,150 tonnes.
NICKEL: higher. Midweek, nickel soared to a 19-month closing high, since  September 1992, at 6,760 dollars per tonne before falling towards the end of  the week to prices only slightly above the previous Friday close at 6,475  dollars per tonne.
During the week, nickel rose in line with copper as commodities soared  across the board, but the metal was particularly popular in view of a possible  strike next week at the Sudbury, Ontario, operations plant of the Canadian  producer Inco, where the current labor contract expires on the 31st.
Inco remains confident that it will reach a labour agreement by Tuesday or  so, but a union spokesman said that talks were going badly and that a strike  from midnight on May 31st was "almost guaranteed".
But news that the company is being slated as a potential take-over target  will not help the unions cause -- a new boss could apply even more swinging  cuts, dealers said.
The market believes Inco has the ability to continue nickel deliveries for  only three weeks in the event of industrial action, which workers have voted  for if the contract is not renewed.
The factory produces around 9,000 tonnes of refined nickel per month,  around nine percent of western production, said John Bergtheil, analyst for  Metals and Minerals Research Services.
Weekly stocks on the LME fell 366 tonnes to 131,904 tonnes.
