French bankers seeking to recover huge debts from  flamboyant soccer boss and self-made millionaire Bernard Tapie on Friday sent  bailiffs into his chic Paris home to assess a collection of 18th century  French furniture, paintings and works of art.
The furniture was not removed from his residence, situated on the left  bank of the river Seine, but Tapie is henceforth unable to dispose of it.
Tapie, president of the recently-relegated football club Olympique  Marseille, was present during the inventory.
The state-owned Credit Lyonnais, which is debt-ridden, is owed a total of  180 million dollars by Tapie, of which 61 million dollars are due immediately.
In a communique Friday, the bank said a March 13 agreement with Tapie for  rescheduling of his debt, with a mortgage on his property, had lapsed.
The communique said Tapie's assets had reduced in value since March 13,  following a customs prosecution against the tycoon concerning his yacht the  Phocea and the relegation to the second division of Olympique Marseille.
The club was demoted for its role in an alleged match-rigging scandal.
Tapies business empire is believed to owe Credit Lyonnais slightly more  than one billion francs (166.7 million dollars).
Tapie is believed to be personally liable for this because his companies  come under the legal status of an SNC (societe en nom collectif or company in  collective names).
Credit Lyonnais, a state-controlled bank which itself is in severe  financial trouble, said on Friday that an agreement it had reached with Tapie  on March 13 was now nul and void.
The bank had decided to "take all necessary measures to protect the  interests of the bank."
The Credit Lyonnais came under attack from the conservative forces now in  government when, under a socialist administration, it helped Tapie to acquire  and then dispose of the Adidas sports clothing company.
A former minister for urban affairs in the last Socialist government,  Tapie has ambitions to become mayor of the big southern port city of Marseille.
Tapie heads the campaign by the Movement of Radicals of the Left (MRG) for  elections to the European parliament in June, and is seen to analysts to  harbour presidential ambitions.
