Bosnia's warring factions Wednesday  launched into peace talks with members of an international contact group from  the United States, Russia and the European Union.
Bosnian Premier Haris Silajdzic, vice-president Ejup Ganic, Bosnian Croat  leader Kresimir Zubak and the leader of the Bosnian Serb self-proclaimed  parliament, Momcilo Krajisnik, were all present for the talks at Talloires, a  small tourist resort on the shores of Lake Annecy near the Swiss border.
The contact group is made up of experts from France, Britain, Russia, the  United States -- which has delegated President Bill Clinton's special envoy  Charles Redman to the talks -- and the United Nations.
The meeting aimed to reach an agreement on the future carve-up of Bosnia  alongside a general four-month ceasefire, as a prelude to a permanent peace.
The contact group proposes that 51 percent of Bosnian land be earmarked  for the newly-agreed Moslem-Croat federation, whose supporters want 58 percent  but presently only control 30. A total of 49 percent would be set aside for  the Bosnian Serbs, who currently occupy more than 70 percent.
Foreign ministers from the contact group countries presented their map on  May 13 at a meeting at which they gave Croat, Moslem and Serb leaders two  weeks to return to the negotiating table. France and Britain have already  threatened to pull out their peacekeeping troops in the absence of substantial  progress towards peace.
The Bosnian Serbs are calling for a permanent ceasefire, but Moslems fear  this could lead to the de facto entrenchment of current military positions and  allow the Serbs to hang onto territorial gains.
The Moslems hope their own recent offensives will give them room to  manoeuvre at the talks.
Krajisnik said Tuesday the Bosnian Serbs wanted a ceasefire as soon as  possible and did not attach any conditions to a truce or new peace talks.
Referring to sanctions in effect against Serbia and NATO air raids against  Bosnian Serbs, he complained that only the Serbs faced sanctions, adding: "We  think we must be treated in the same way" as other parties.
A member of the Moslem delegation had earlier accused the superpowers of  trying to "dictate" a solution which would not restore peace.
The behind-closed-doors meeting, held amid tight security, was scheduled  to last until Thursday afternoon.
