Four gunmen who hijacked a bus and took its  passengers captive flew out of the southern Russian town of Mineralnye Vody  Friday aboard a helicopter with a ransom of eight million dollars and four  hostages, police said.
The ITAR-TASS news agency said seven armed forces helicopters were tailing  the hostages' craft, which was flying toward Makhachkala, capital of the  autonomous republic of Dagestan, which borders the Caspian Sea and Chechenya,  another autonomous republic.
Police general Ivan Tetereviatnikov said the gunmen had been given arms  and morphine to release some passengers Thursday afternoon, then two lots of  four million dollars Friday in exchange for the freedom of two more batches of  passengers.
He told AFP by telephone that the helicopter, which had a crew of four,  was carrying one male and three female hostages.
The gunmen, armed with three submachine-guns and a grenade, had holed up  with their hostages -- 51 originally -- in the bus station at the Mineralnye  Vody airport, Tetereviatnikov said.
The gunmen freed a first group of hostages Thursday afternoon in return  for arms, drugs and equipment, retaining 13 of the passengers.
The security forces handed over four more sub-machineguns, a grenade  launcher, four bullet-proof vests, night-sights and a portable television set  to the men, an interior ministry source said.
Police had previously also provided the gunmen with phials of morphine,  security forces said.
The arms had been "prepared" by the interior ministry but the bullet-proof  vests were real, the source said. Television news broadcasts were being  "filtered."
The gunmen released four more hostages at dawn Friday after receiving four  million dollars in ransom, the general said.
Shortly after that, they released five more hostages in exchange for a  further four million dollars.
Two interior ministry swat teams were flown in Thursday evening. First  Deputy Premier Oleg Soskovets and Interior Minister Viktor Yerin were jointly  running operations from the interior ministry, sources at the ministry said.
The drama began Thursday afternoon when the gunmen hijacked the bus near  Mineralnoye Vody as it travelled from the North Ossetian city of Vladikavkaz  en route to the southern Russian city of Stavropol.
The authorities allowed the bus to approach the town's airport, where  officials earlier said some 800 troops were deployed, surrounded by police  vehicles, according to Tetereviatnikov.
During the afternoon the hostage-takers released the 15 children they were  holding along with 23 adults in an operation staggered over several hours,  Tetereviatnikov told AFP.
The hostage-taking was the fourth to occur in the region in the past five  years.
The last hostage drama occurred last December when 15 schoolchildren were  abducted in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-the-Don.
The four-man gang obtained a helicopter and led authorities on a four-day  airborne pursuit through the Caucasus before releasing their hostages one by  one in return for 10 million dollars in ransom, most of which was recovered.
