Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shareh dismissed  Israeli peace proposals Thursday saying they showed Israel did not want to  withdraw from all the Arab lands it occupied during the 1967 Middle East war.
The official agency SANA said Shareh was commenting during a meeting with   his Swiss counterpart Jacob Kellenberger whoe arrived in Damascus Wednesday.
Shareh said the proposals relayed to Syria by US Secretary of State Warren  Christopher during his four-day shuttle mission "would not help to achieve  progress" in the peace process.
He said they "were based on premeditated Israeli intentions not to  withdraw from all the Arab lands occupied in 1967," SANA added.
The main stumbling block to resuming stalled Israel-Syria peace talks has  been the issue of the Golan Heights, seized in 1967 and annexed in 1981.
Syria is demanding a commitment to total withdrawal before resuming talks,  while Israel is offering a phased withdrawal in return for a peace pledge.
Earlier Thursday Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Syria was  "blowing cool" as the United States endeavoured to bring it back to the Middle  East peace table with Israel.
"We know the Syrians' methods," Peres told state radio. "Until an  agreement is concluded they blow cool winds in every direction."
"It is easy to reach an agreement with Lebanon but it has no value, while  with Syria it is difficult.
"But once it is done, it will be respected (by Syria)," Peres said.
The minister denied a Hebrew press report on Thursday that Israel had  agreed to let Syria have an early warning station in the Galilee as part of  reciprocal security arrangements in the event of a withdrawal from the Golan  Heights.
"These speculations are very premature. The problem with the Syrians is  not to sort out technical problems, but first to reach an agreeement in  principle which will then enable these problems to be solved."
US Secretary of State Warren Christopher ended a second shuttle mission  between Jerusalem and Damascus in three weeks on Wednesday.
He left Cairo on Thursday after admitting that there was still a long way  to go in the search to bring peace between Israel and Syria.
Kellenberger meanwhile said Switzerland backed the peace process saying UN  Security Council resolutions should be applied as well as "the principle of  exchanging land for peace," SANA added.
