An international conference on alleged Indonesian  abuses in the former Portuguese colony of East Timor opened here Tuesday after  the Supreme Court overruled Philippine government efforts to ban the meeting.
The Supreme Court temporarily lifted Tuesday a lower court ruling barring  the private conference, due to last until Friday.
The ban had been obtained by allies of President Fidel Ramos, who had said  the conference would cause "irreparable harm" to relations with Indonesia.
Ramos said the high court ruling "clearly sets forth the legal parameters  under which the conference may be held" and he ordered government agencies to  comply.
"The Supreme Court decision sustained the president's position that a  meeting on the East Timor issue is protected by the freedom of expression and  assembly guaranteed by the constitution," Ramos said.
But the court upheld an order by Ramos banning foreigners from attending  the conference, citing national interests.
Those blacklisted included Danielle Mitterrand, the French first lady.
The immigration bureau ordered the arrest of 10 Australian, American,  European and Asian participants who are believed to have eluded a government  "watch-list." It previously expelled 10 persons, including Irish Nobel Peace  Prize winner Mairead Maguire.
Officials said Ramos' actions were aimed at preserving ties with  Indonesia, which annexed East Timor in 1976. The United Nations does not  recognize Jakarta's sovereignty over East Timor.
Western diplomats here described the row as a disaster for both  governments.
In protest at the meeting, Indonesia cancelled a ministerial visit to  Manila, pulled out of a regional business conference in the southern  Philippines and threatened to end its efforts to act as go-between in peace  talks between Manila and Moslem guerrillas.
The human rights meeting opened at a state university in suburban Manila  with a Filipino lawyer reading Maguire's prepared speech to about 1,000  participants in a packed auditorium.
In the speech, Maguire criticized the West for allegedly ignoring the  plight of the East Timorese.
In Paris, Mitterrand, whose keynote speech is scheduled to be read in her  absence Wednesday, denounced Indonesian President Suharto for putting  "tyrannical pressure on us and on the Filipino government to stop me from  going to this meeting."
In Malaysia, a group of 16 Malaysian human rights activists protesting  Indonesian actions in East Timor were assaulted Tuesday by about 40  Indonesians outside the Indonesian embassy in Kuala Lumpur.
In Jakarta, a foreign ministry spokesman noted that the court upheld  Ramos' authority to ban foreign participants to the meeting. "That is the most  important point for Indonesia," he said
The Indonesian Legal Aid Foundation, a human rights organization, hailed  the court decision as "a lesson that the democratic process in the Philippines  is truly functioning," and that "the government cannot intervene at will into  the affairs of society."
