"Lifting the arms embargo is the only feasible option that will permit the  Bosnian government to defend itself," said Senator Joseph Biden following the  vote on the bill.
State Department spokesman Michael McCurry said earlier that passing the  measure would be "problematic."
He also suggested it would send a conflicting message to Geneva, where  foreign ministers from Europe, Russia and the United States were to discuss  the Balkan conflict Friday.
Europe and Russia have argued that an end to the arms embargo would  escalate the fighting and quash any chance to resolve the conflict  diplomatically.
At the United Nations a diplomat said that the Security Council was  unlikely to approve a resolution lifting the embargo, noting that even if it  had a majority among the 15 members Russia would be sure to veto it.
China's UN representative, Chen Jian, said the US Senate action could  create new problems.
"China is not in favor of measures which could escalate the war. We could  judge against this background," the Beijing diplomat said.
Last year, a resolution introduced at the UN by Moslem and non-aligned  countries to exempt Bosnian Moslems from the sanctions won only six of the  nine votes necessary to pass. Five non-aligned members and the United States  supported the resolution.
Earlier Sadako Ogata, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,  said that lifting the arms embargo would not help efforts to bring peace to  Bosnia-Hercegovina after more than two years of brutal war.
"From a humanitarian point of view ... the number one objective I would  like to see achieved is a ceasefire. Number two is a political settlement,"  she said. "I hope all the meetings and decisions would lead to these two  objectives."
Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic had appealed to members to pass the  bill, and thanked Dole and Democratic Senator Joseph Lieberman for introducing  it.
"The hopes of the Bosnian people are turned to the United States Senate,"  he said recently.
