About 30,000 Palestinian refugees are threatened  with expulsion from their Beirut camps to make room for a luxury hotel and new  roads as part of efforts to give the Lebanese capital a face-lift.
"The Lebanese government wants to build a five-star hotel on a stretch of  land in Chatila camp that skirts the Sports City ahead of the 1996 Pan-Arab  Games," said Suheil Natur, a member of the Palestinian opposition.
"Two roads will run through Chatila and Sabra, while expansion work on the  airport highway and a ring road around the capital will destroy one-third of  the Burj Barajneh camp," Natur said.
He said the government and the state-run Council for Development and  Reconstruction (CDR), which oversee post-war projects, were preparing to open  tenders.
Another opposition Palestinian leader, Salah Salah, told AFP the measures  were aimed at "paving the way for dispersing the Palestinian community living  in camps".
There are 300,000 Palestinians refugees in Lebanon who left Israel after  its creation in 1948. Half of them live in camps.
Their fate has also been ignored under the May 4 Israel-PLO accord  launching Palestinian autonomy in the Gaza Strip and Jericho.
Salah accused billionaire Prime Minister Rafic Hariri of "advocating the  dismantling of the camps to embellish Beirut".
Sabra, Chatila and Burj Barajneh were partially destroyed during the  1985-1988 "war of the camps" between Palestinians and the pro-Syrian Moslem  Shiite Amal militia.
Around 6,000 Palestinian families also fled the camps of Tall Zaatar, Jisr  al-Basha and Dbaye razed by Christian militiamen at the start of the 1975-1990  civil war in Lebanon.
They are now squatting in apartment blocks in Beirut, which they must  evacuate by June.
"The 5,000 dollars compensation they are giving us are not enough to find  new homes in Beirut," said Imad, a head of family who originally comes from  the Galillee region in what is now northern Israel.
A cabinet minister, who declined to be named, said: "The Christians and  the Shia who fought the Palestinians don't want them around anymore."
"The governent will try to raise 25,000 dollars for each family in  international aid to find them proper housing in north Lebanon or the  (eastern) Bekaa Valley," the minister said.
"We must put an end to these pockets of misery and revolt that surround  Beirut. The inhabitants of the camps must be integrated in the Lebanese  society," he added.
A plan by the Lebanese government to rebuild a railroad along the coastal  road from Tyre in the south to Tripoli in the north threatens the camps of  Rashidiyeh, Ain Helwe and Al-Bared, homes for thousands of Palestinians.
Earlier this year Lebanese Foreign Minister Fares Bweiz ruled out the  resettlement of Palestinians in Lebanon and recommended they be allowed to  emigrate to Arab Gulf countries, the Americas, Australia and Europe.
Bweiz charged that keeping the Palestinians -- most of whom are Sunni  Moslems -- would jeopardise the already fragile equilibrilum between  Christians and Moslems in Lebanon.
"They are trying to encourage Palestinians to emigrate by stifling them  economically and pushing them into despair," Natur said.
For several years the Lebanese authorities have banned Palestinians from  working in 60 professions -- including in the medical and legal fields,  plumbing and carpentry -- without a prior authorisation.
Only 193 work permits were delivered to Palestinians in 1992 and 337 the  following year.
In the Mar Elias camp, home to 2,000 Palestinians, south of Beirut, people  speak of a plot.
"The UN Relief and Works Agency and the PLO are reducing the volume of  their aid in order to force us to accept any solution," said one of the  refugees who declined to be named.
Around 100,000 Palestinians have emigrated since the 1982 Israeli invasion  of Lebanon, with most leaving after the massacres the same year in the Sabra  and Chatila camps.
