Two Israeli warplanes fired missiles at  suspected guerrilla positions in south Lebanon, police said.
The fighter bombers fired a single missile each at the valley lying  between the Kfar Rumman and Suweida, villages facing the central sector of  Israel's "security zone", police said.
Two other planes served as cover and fired decoys as the Lebanese army's  anti-aircraft guns went into action but missed, police said.
There were no immediate reports of casualties and police could not say  what the targets were but added that the areas are used by Iranian-backed  Hezbollah guerrillas to carry out attacks against the security zone.
The raid, the second since Tuesday against south Lebanon targets, came  after an attack by Hezbollah on a position of Israel's proxy South Lebanon  Army (SLA) in Dabshe, on the outskirts of the security zone, in which a  spokesman for the fundamentalists said three Israeli soldiers were hit.
Lebanese police said Dabshe took a direct hit when Hezbollah fired three  mortar shells at the outpost, triggering a fire but the police was unable to  report if there were any casualties.
Israeli gunners meanwhile shelled the outskirts of Nabatiyeh, the main  Shiite Moslem town in south Lebanon, as well as villages facing Dabshe, for  two hours, police said.
The shelling started several fires around Nabatiyeh and cornfields in the  area and a firefighter was hurt trying to extinguish a blaze that ripped  through a wood near Nabatiyeh, police said.
Israeli gunners lobbed more than 30 shells and fired heavy machine guns at  the targets, police added.
A Lebanese civilian was killed by Israeli troops at dawn who mistook  60-year-old labourer Rashid Mansur for a member of a guerrilla group trying to  infiltrate the security zone, UN officers in south Lebanon reported earlier.
On Tuesday Israeli warplanes made seven bombing runs on Hezbollah  strongholds in the Iqlim al-Tuffah hills east of the southern port city of  Sidon, firing 28 missiles. There were no casualties.
An Israeli spokesman in Jerusalem said the planes on Tuesday had attacked  Hezbollah training camps and bases used by the group for anti-Israeli  operations, returning to safety after hitting their targets.
Israeli troops in south Lebanon have been on alert for possible  retaliation after commandos snatched Moslem fundamentalist guerrilla chief  Mustafa Dirani on Saturday from his home in Syrian-controlled eastern Lebanon  to trace missing Israeli airman Ron Arad, whose plane was shot down over south  Lebanon in 1986.
Israel's northern military commander, General Yitzhak Mordechai, said  Israel "had information that terrorists will try to kidnap soldiers" to avenge  Dirani's kidnapping.
Israeli soldiers have been subsequently ordered to be on maximum alert,  Mordechai was quoted as saying Wednesday by Voice of the South Radio.
Guerrilla organisations have vowed revenge attacks and Hezbollah's  secretary general Hassan Nasrallah pledged on Tuesday to "make Israel cry"  over Dirani's abduction.
