Pakistani Foreign Minister Assef Ahmed Ali said  Saturday the United States no longer insisted that Islamabad roll back its  nuclear programme in isolation of India.
"The US is no longer attempting to roll back Pakistan's nuclear programme  on a unilateral basis," the official Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) quoted  him saying at a seminar on the country's foreign policy here.
Ali was speaking during ongoing talks between US and Pakistani officials  over the nuclear impasse between Islamabad, New Delhi and Washington.
Pakistan and the United States had agreed to work for "progressive steps"  toward non-proliferation in South Asia, he said.
Pakistan was continuing its dialogue with the United States "within this  framework" to devise specific steps the success of which "will depend on a  more positive response from India," he said.
During the visit of US Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott here in  April, Pakistan refused to agree to a proposed "verifiable cap on the  production of fissile materials."
The proposal was laced with the offer of "enhanced US cooperation with  Pakistan in various fields," but Islamabad said it would not give up its  nuclear option without India taking similar steps.
A joint statement at the end of Talbott's visit said the two sides had  agreed to pursue the goal of "capping, then reducing and finally eliminating  weapons of mass destruction and ballistic misslies in South Asia."
Ali said "a new cooperative engagement between Pakistan and the United  States was agreed during the visit of Talbott."
The United States cut off economic and military aid to Pakistan in 1990  because of concerns that Islamabad's nuclear programme was weapons oriented.  Later, it stopped delivery of a batch of F-16 fighter aircraft, due under a  1989 deal.
Pakistan's President Farooq Ahmed Leghari is expected to meet with  American officials during a private visit to the United States from May 19 to  June two and reports here said the nuclear issue feature in the talks.
