Unhappy Michael Stich, who had such high hopes of  winning the French Open, admitted he would have been better off staying in bed  here on Thursday after losing in the second round to Aaron Krickstein of the  United States.
Stich was beaten 3-6, 3-6, 4-6 in 1hr 43mins on the Roland Garros  centre-court -- the match being briefly interrupted for ten minutes by rain  late in the third set.
But when play resumed it was quickly clear there was no way back for the  25-year-old German.
Stich, a semi-finalist three years ago, did not hide his disappointment  after the loss.
"I played bad. I didn't serve well. I had a problem with my elbow -- it  was one of those days I should have stayed in bed," he said.
"I would have lost to anyone today."
Stich, who last week beat world number-one Pete Sampras and defending  French champion Sergi Bruguera in the World Team Cup at Dusseldorf, said  Krickstein would have to play better to reach the later stages of the  tournament.
"Let's put it this way. If he plays normal and I play normal I win in  three sets," he said
Krickstein, who has fought his way back up to 33rd in the rankings, is  often referred to as 'the forgotten man of American tennis.'
Now 26-years-old, the 1989 US Open semi-finalist plunged down the rankings  after being away from the circuit for nearly a year after breaking his foot in  1992. He was ranked sixth in the world just four years ago.
"I never mind playing the top players in the early rounds of a Grand Slam  tournament," he said.
"Playing the five-set format probably suits me. I'm pretty fit and people  have to play well to beat me.
"I know I shall have to play better if I am to get further in the  tournament. It wasn't great tennis out there today. But Stich isn't the  world's second-best player when it comes to playing on clay."
In the women's singles the tournament's 1991 junior champion Anna  Smashnova, who caused a major upset by putting out Jana Novotna out on  Tuesday, failed to clear the second hurdle.
The 17-year-old Minsk-born Israeli was overwhelmed by experienced American  Shaun Stafford 4-6, 1-6.
Stafford now faces either compatriot Ann Grossman or Petra Langrova of the  Czech Republic for a place in the last-sixteen.
The crowds were able to cheer a home victory when this year's Paris Open  indoor finalist Julie Halard beat Petra Begerow of Germany 7-5, 4-6, 6-4.
Hallard, who has risen to 24th in the rankings now faces ninth-seeded  American Lindsay Davenport. Davenport outplayed Poland's Katarina Nowak 6-4,  6-2.
