An apparently soft line taken by New Zealand  Prime Minister Jim Bolger in talks with Indonesian President Suharto over East  Timor was Tuesday causing vocal irritation among government and opposition MPs.
Bolger met Suharto and Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas in Jakarta  on Monday and spoke about New Zealand concerns over Indonesia's treatment of  the former Portuguese territory occupied since 1975.
After the meeting, Bolger told New Zealand media that East Timor's  problems related to the colonial past.
"The problems of East Timor go back to the old colonial regime that carved  an island up and decided one half belonged to the Portuguese and the other  half belonged to the Dutch," he said.
"There is nothing that New Zealand can do to change the constitutional  position and that's where it rests."
Alatas told New Zealand journalists accompanying Bolger a petition signed  by the majority of parliamentarians here, calling for self-determination for  East Timor, showed a "shallow understanding" of the situation.
"It talks about withdrawal of troops, which means you're still thinking in  terms of annexation and occupation by foreign forces," he said.
Bolger said he would be "surprised if any New Zealand politician  understands the issue in the depth that Foreign Minister Alatas does."
Earlier this month, 51 of 99 New Zealand members of parliament signed a  petition calling for an end to alleged human rights abuses in East Timor.
The petition followed screening here of John Pilger's documentary which he  said had been secretly filmed in Timor. Pilger claimed 200,000 people in the  territory, a third of the population, had died.
Opposition Labour MP Phil Goff said he was appalled by Bolger's comments.
"When a person like the prime minister condones what's happening, that  simply reinforces the Indonesian belief that what they're doing is right and  acceptable, and I'm frankly appalled at the apology made by the prime  minister," he said.
One of those who signed the petition, ruling National Party MP Max Bradford  said Tuesday he would want to take up the invitation but was worried at media  reports suggesting Bolger had taken a soft line.
"I would be disappointed if the parliamentarians concerns were not put  pretty directly," he told Radio New Zealand.
Alatas has invited the MPs to visit East Timor. Goff said he would want to  visit East Timor but was doubtful a short visit would result in an accurate  impression of what was happening.
