One of Singapore's major rubber brokers has  withdrawn from its market-making role on the Singapore Commodity Exchange  (SICOM), leaving only one broker playing the role actively, industry sources  said on Tuesday.
SICOM general manager Chong Kim Seng said that he had received a letter  from Dexin Rubber Pte. Ltd. advising him of its withdrawal.
Industry sources said Dexin's decision raised the issue of whether SICOM's  market system should be continued with only one active market-maker or whether  the system should be revamped.
Market-making is a practice in which brokers quote both buyers' and  sellers' prices and become a buyer when there is a seller and vice versa to  ensure transactions on the market.
Dexin's departure gives the privately-owned leading market-maker  Transworld Rubber Pte. Ltd. a virtual monopoly on SICOM, a dealer at an  international commodities company said.
The remaining three market-makers are either inactive or took on a  market-making role only for specific clients, he said.
Chong said Dexin's withdrawal may encourage a switch from a market-making  system to an order-driven system at SICOM, which was launched two years ago as  a modern commodity futures exchange. An order-driven system is one in which  the best bid is matched with the best offer.
Industry sources said that when the rubber market adopted market-making,  the market was lively with as much as 600 tonnes of rubber traded on a single  quote.
"Nobody foresaw what was going to happen," a dealer said.
"The market is going to have to come to grips with the central issue of  how to widen participation. It may well be that market-making is not  compatible with that goal," he said.
The dealer said SICOM, struggling for two years to find its feet, had to  move to some form of order-driven system to attract outside interest.
"There is no reason for rubber to be less attractive than other  commodities. In Japan it is very attractive," he said.
Dealers said transactions on SICOM had dwindled with support only from a  core group of traders. Efforts at attracting speculators had also failed.
Although there was still respectable underlying interest in rubber futures  contracts, dealers said trading was usually one way.
"It is either all buyers or all sellers and that makes it hard for market  makers," a dealer said.
Analysts said the move in 1992 from unstructured trading to a modern and  transparent commodity exchange in which prices are reported on an electronic  screen made market-makers less competitive.
Chong said that given the recent volatility in prices, SICOM remained  relevant as a market where rubber producers and consumers could hedge risks of  unfavourable price movements.
"Over the past one year, TSR (technically specified rubber) 20 rose from  115 Singapore cents (75 US cents) to 177 Singapore cents and then fell back to  153 Singapore cents. It was up 54 percent and down 14 percent," he said.
Ribbed Smoked Sheet (RSS) 3 rose 32 percent to 99 US cents before  retracing two percent to 97 US cents while RSS 1 rose 25 percent to 154  Singapore cents before retreating three percent to 150 Singapore cents, he  said.
"The utility of SICOM has been fully demonstrated," Chong said.
