China welcomed Friday US President Bill Clinton's  decision to renew its most-favoured-nation (MFN) trade status and abandon his  linkage of trade to human rights, but criticised his refusal to lift all  sanctions against it.
"The Chinese government and people welcome this decision by President  Clinton," the foreign ministry said in a statement reacting to the  announcement in Washington Thursday on MFN renewal.
It declared: "The decision will create favourable conditions for the  further strengthening and expansion of trade and economic cooperation between  the two sides and the improvement and development of overall relations."
But the ministry expressed regret at Clinton's decision to maintain  "existing sanctions" against China and accused the US administration of making  "unjustifiable accusations" about the human rights situation here.
"This constitutes an interference in China's internal affairs, which is  absolutely unacceptable to us," the statement said.
"We hope that the US government ... would lift all sanctions against China  at the earliest possible date and abandon all measures detrimental to the  development of bilateral relations," it said, without referring directly to  the ban imposed Thursday on Chinese munitions imports to the United States.
The ban was the only sanction imposed by Clinton on China for its failure  to achieve the "significant overall progress" in human rights, set in 1993 as  a condition for MFN renewal this year.
He also retained sanctions imposed after the 1989 Tiananmen Square  massacre, in which countless pro-democracy activists were killed by the  People's Liberation Army (PLA).
These sanctions include denial of Chinese participation in the U.S. trade  and development assistance program, U.S. opposition to non-basic human-needs  loans to China by the World Bank and suspension of military cooperation,  according to Xinhua.
Clinton acknowledged that "serious human rights abuses continue" in China,  but said the policy of linking trade to human rights had reached "the end of  its usefulness."
China had maintained a consistently tough approach to US pressure over  human rights and reiterated its opposition to the policy Friday.
"What the US side did in the past few years on the MFN issue has impaired  bilateral trade and economic exchanges and the overall relations between the  two countries, to the strong dissatisfaction of the Chinese people," the  foreign ministry statement said.
Pledging China would continue to make efforts for the improvement and  development of ties, the statement urged the United States to "take a  realistic and forward-looking approach ... and take concrete action to show  its sincerity in enhancing relations between the two countries."
The ban on Chinese munitions affects goods worth, according to US  estimates, 200 million dollars a year. That represents less than one percent  of the 22-billion-dollar surplus that China ran in bilateral trade in 1993.
