South Africa's new government held its first  working session here Monday as Zulu leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi angrily  rejected any impropriety in a deal that saw the former white government sign  over vast tracts of land to the Zulu king.
Buthelezi, president of the Zulu nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP)  and Home Affairs minister in the new government, lashed out at reporters for  suggesting there was a row between him and Nelson Mandela's government over  the deal.
The transfer was openly debated and endorsed by the assembly of the  now-defunct KwaZulu homeland, Buthelezi said, describing the arrangement under  which 1.2 million hectares (2.96 million acres) of land were signed over to  Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini by former president Frederik de Klerk as a  routine operation.
A first newspaper report here incorrectly said the deal involved three  million hectares of land, but officials have confirmed the revised new figure.
Buthelezi dismissed as "rubbish" any suggestion of secretiveness, or that  the deal was instrumental in bringing about the IFP's 11th hour participation  in last month's historic all-race election, he said, was "rubbish."
He said the entire affair had been blown up by the media "because you do  not want peace."
"There is no row as far as I am concerned," said Buthelezi, who was  cornered by reporters after his staff brought him to the wrong gate of the  parliamentary complex here to attend first meeting of the government of  national unity.
He arrived after talks he was to have held last night over the issue with  Mandela, and which the new president had described Sunday night as being part  of "very sensitive matters."
"The land deal has created a great deal of concern," Mandela said, adding  that he would do "everything necessary to remove the tension."
He said the issue was likely to top the agenda of the cabinet meeting, but  Buthelezi said the matter was not on the order of the day.
The deal under which the land was transferred to a trust held by  Zwelithini was approved by now Deputy President De Klerk on April 25, the day  before the start of South Africa's historic first democratic poll.
The land comprises about one-fifth of the former KwaZulu homeland, which  was dismantled when South Africa's new interim constitution came into effect  on April 27.
According to Johannesburg's Sunday Times newspaper, the king now controls  more land than the ninth Duke of Buccleuch, listed in the Guinness Book of  Records as the biggest landowner in the world.
Senior ANC officials said they were unaware of the deal, which they claim  violates a moratorium on the disposal of state land and fear could jeopardise  future land reform programmes.
The new government's Land Affairs Minister, Derek Hanekom of the ANC, said  he had ordered a 24-hour guard on his Pretoria office to prevent the  disappearance of any documents connected with the deal.
Hanekom was to have held a press conference here Monday morning, which  aides said was not connected with the KwaZulu deal, but this was later  cancelled.
