President Nelson Mandela said he was to hold  talks Sunday night with Zulu leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi in an attempt to  defuse a row over a secret land deal involving Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini.
Speaking to journalists after a meeting of his African National Congress  (ANC) parliamentary caucus here, Mandela said he would be discussing "very  sensitive matters" with Buthelezi, who is also Home Affairs Minister.
"The land deal has created a great deal of concern," Mandela said, adding  that he would do "everything necessary to remove the tension."
He said the issue was also likely to top the agenda of a meeting of his  government of national unity scheduled for Monday.
Presidential spokesman Joel Netshitenzhe told AFP earlier that the two  leaders would hold talks at Mandela's official residence here starting at  around 6 p.m. (1600 GMT) Sunday but later said it had been delayed several  hours.
Also on the agenda, according to Netshitenzhe, was the bitter political  wrangling in KwaZulu-Natal province between the ANC and Buthelezi's Inkatha  Freedom Party (IFP) over cabinet positions, which has left the province  effectively ungoverned.
The land deal, under which three million hectares (7.5 million acres) of  land was transferred to a trust held by Zwelithini, was approved by former  president and now Deputy President Frederik de Klerk on April 25, just two  days before South Africa's first all-race election.
The land comprises more than one third of former KwaZulu black homeland,  which was dismantled when a new interim constitution came into effect on April  27.
According to the Johannesburg Sunday Times, the king now controls more  land than the ninth Duke of Buccleugh, listed in the Guinness Book of Records  as the biggest landowner in the world.
De Klerk and Buthelezi claim the transfer was legal and was debated openly  in the KwaZulu Legislative Assembly.
But senior ANC officials say neither they nor Mandela were informed of the  deal, which they claim violates a moratorium on the disposal of state land.
They also fear the transfer could jeopardise future land reform programmes.
Apart from debating the land deal, Mandela and Buthelezi will attempt at  their meeting to sort out squabbling in KwaZulu-Natal which has resulted in  ANC officials refusing to take up cabinet postings offered them by the  Premier, IFP chairman Frank Mdlalose.
ANC provincial leader Jacob Zuma has claimed that Mdlalose initially  offered him the post of social welfare in the multiparty provincial cabinet,  but without warning or consultation, subsequently changed this to the lesser  position of public works.
Zuma also complained that the ANC was not given a deputy cabinet position  on police, which it wanted.
Clashes between ANC and IFP supporters in the province have seen some  10,000 people killed since 1987.
Violence eased during the country's first all-race national and provincial  elections last month -- won nationally by the ANC but in KwaZulu-Natal by the  IFP -- but has begun to flare again in recent days.
"This is the most violent area in the country, and the problems cannot be  resolved until the people feel confident in police impartiality," Zuma said in  an interview with the Sunday Times.
"Excluding the ANC from the (police) portfolio will never work," he added.  "It is a critical mistake."
Mdlalose said he had "consulted" with Zuma as he was required to do under  the constitution, but the law did not expect "negotiation", which, he said,  was what Zuma appeared to have in mind.
