Hungary's two main political forces expected to  govern after next Sunday's final round of legislative elections have pledged  to build closer links with NATO and other European security organisations.
Both the Socialist Party (HSP), in the lead after the May 8 first round,  and the runner-up Alliance of Free Democrats (SZDSZ), have said that Hungary  should "organically integrate with the Euro-Atlantic community."
They want the integration to be implemented through wide political and  military cooperation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and active  participation in NATO's Partnership for Peace, which stops short of offering  full NATO membership.
They also agree that stability and security in central-eastern Europe are  impossible without NATO taking an active role.
The two parties are expected to form the pillars of a coalition government  after Sunday's run-off to distribute a remaining 233 out of a total 386  parliamentary seats.
"The most effective solution would be if NATO, either institutionally or  in some other form, guaranteed the stability and security of the whole region,  offering the same feeling of security for all the countries" in the region,  HSP defence expert Laszlo Kovacs told AFP.
He said such an option should take place "without giving one or the other  a feeling of having the upper hand or inferiority."
Hungary's desire to join NATO as a full member sounded far-fetched when  current HSP leader Gyula Horn, communist foreign minister until 1989, made the  proposal to parliament in February 1990, a year before the Warsaw Pact  military
alliance was dissolved.
It seems a closer prospect now, with cooperation expanding under the North  Atlantic Cooperation Council and with the Partnership for Peace, the HSP and  SZDSZ hope.
The HSP wants a decision on Hungary's affiliation to NATO to be put to a  referendum, while SZDSZ leaders said that a legislative decision would be  sufficient.
The HSP is also proposing that associate members to the European Union --  Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, the Czech and Slovak republics, Romania and later  Slovenia -- could be granted associate or observer status in NATO as well.
For the time being, however, and bearing in mind that NATO is uninterested  in letting in unstable central-eastern European countries as full members,  both parties are content with intensifying Hungary's role in NATO's "bridging  solutions."
Russia and the successor states of the former Soviet Union -- fraught with  extreme nationalism, economic uncertainty, nostalgia for a lost world power  status and armed conflicts fired by ethnic frictions -- represent the "most  realistic dangers" for neighbouring Hungary, according to the HSP and the  SZDSZ.
Russia, which paid Hungary with MiG-29 fighters for an 800-million-dollar  part of the trade debt of the former Soviet Union last year, wants to pay a  remaining 900-million-dollar part of the debt with SS-30 missiles to help  Hungary boost its army.
The socialists, while admitting that the Hungarian army's potential is  "insufficient," would rather opt to buy property in Russian enterprises or be  paid in another form than to accept the missiles, socialist sources told AFP.
"An independent Hungarian defence system should be based on the genuine  strength and resources of the country, with the sole purpose of defending it  against a potential foreign attack," Kovacs said.
Training, gradual modernisation and better living standards for  professional army officers -- 30 percent of whom currently live below the  official subsistence level -- should bring the army to a level where it is  able to cooperate with international organisations including NATO, he said.
