Jordan on Sunday backed the unity of war-torn Yemen  but like several other Arab states steered clear of condemning southern  leaders for declaring an independent state.
Deputy Prime Minister Said al-Tall refused to comment on the declaration  of independence issued by southern leader Ali Salem al-Baid on Saturday  following more than two weeks of civil war.
"Jordan continues to support legality in Yemen and the unity of its people  and hopes the Yemenis can resolve their differences through dialogue," he told  AFP.
Baid proclaimed a Yemeni Democratic Republic with the port city of Aden as  its capital, almost four years to the day that former conservative, tribal  North Yemen and the Marxist South were unified on May 22, 1990.
Yemen's President Ali Abdallah Saleh has condemned Baid, his sacked  deputy, as "a traitor" and a statement from Sanaa hinted late Saturday that  the north would cut ties with any country recognising the new republic.
Any contact with Baid would be "considered an act hostile to the Yemeni  people and a flagrant and unacceptable interference in our internal affairs,"  it warned.
Saleh telephoned five Arab leaders on Saturday including King Fahd of  Saudi Arabia and Syrian President Hafez al-Assad.
He also informed PLO chief Yasser Arafat, Algerian President Lamiane  Zeroual and United Arab Emirates leader Sheikh Zayed ben Sultan Nahyan of the  situation in Yemen, where a north-south civil war broke out on May 5.
Libya's leader Moamer Kadhafi, "in protest and mourning" at the south's  decision, decided not to take part in festivities Saturday for the Moslem  feast of Al-Adha, the official Libyan news agency JANA said.
But an Arab diplomat in Cairo, who requested anonymity, said: "Most Arab  states are likely to accept the division of Yemen.
"In the light of present circumstances, you must admit that the unity of  Yemen cannot be imposed by force."
Officials at the Cairo-based Arab League have said recognition of the  south's independence would need the approval of two-thirds of the  organisation's 22 members.
