Northern forces control the whole of the  key military base of Al-Anad guarding the approaches to the southern  stronghold of Aden, correspondents reported Saturday.
Southern forces positioned some 10 to 15 kilometres (six to nine miles)  south of the base fired salvoes of Katyusha rockets at forces loyal to  President Ali Abdallah Saleh, an AFP correspondent said after visiting the  base Friday.
And southern jets screamed overhead pounding northern forces in a bid to  dislodge them, drawing bursts of anti-aircraft fire. One jet dropped three  bombs near the northern entrance of the base.
All the base, situated about 60 kilometres (37 miles) north of the  southern port city of Aden, was in northern hands, the correspondent said. It  is divided into an army section and military airstrip.
The north has been locked in a grim struggle for control of the base with  troops loyal to Saleh's southern rival Ali Salem al-Baid since Yemen's civil  war erupted on May 5.
It is the first independent report that the base is in northern hands, as  the north has claimed control several times in the past weeks, swiftly  followed by southern denials.
Correspondents went up to the southern edge, and saw abandoned southern  weapons and damaged buildings. One of the Katyushas hit a small warehouse  starting a fire.
A northern colonel told correspondents the base was captured from southern  troops 10 days ago, but another soldier said the last southern troops left on  Wednesday.
At the airstrip correspondents saw a Mig-21 fighter jet with southern  markings standing outside a hangar. Another Mig-21 and a Sukhoi-7  fighter-bomber had been left behind by southern forces with parts missing.
Shell damage was evident on the control tower and main airstrip building,  but the runway appeared to be undamaged.
Some of the servicemens' quarters at the base had also been hit by shells.
Dozens of tanks and other vehicles abandoned by southern forces were still  standing in sheds at the base.
Northern tanks and artillery at Al-Anad did not fire back at the southern  forces. Local commanders said the northern forces' forward line was now  further south, beyond the base.
Northern commanders did not allow reporters to travel on to the town of  Al-Hutah a few kilometres further south, because it was not under their  control.
Later two trucks carrying SS-21 missiles were seen heading south in the  village of Ar-Rahidah, northwest of Al-Anad.
