A man who knifed two women and a girl to  death in 1982 was hanged in Walla Walla, Washington, early Friday, two hours  after another convicted murderer was executed by lethal injection in Texas.
Charles Rodman Campbell, 39, was subdued with pepper spray by police  before he was handcuffed and taken from his cell to the gallows, a Washington  Corrections Department spokesman said.
Campbell was convicted of knifing two women and an eight-year-old girl to  death in 1982.
One of the women had been raped eight years earlier by Campbell, who was  on a work-release program when he slashed the throats of his former victim,  her daughter and a neighbor. The girl was nearly beheaded.
The Supreme Court rejected a last minute appeal by Campbell's lawyers  arguing, among other things, that hanging was cruel and unusual punishment.
Two hours earlier, Stephen Nethery, 33, was administered a lethal  injection in a maximum-security prison in Huntsville, Texas.
"Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. Amen," Nethery said at the end of a short  prayer in which he asked that others pray for his family and the family of his  victim.
He was then strapped to a bed and administered the lethal injection.
Nethery was convicted of killing a police officer who found him having sex  with a woman in a car beside a lake near Dallas in 1981. The woman claimed she  was raped but Nethery was not prosecuted on that charge.
Late Thursday, the Supreme Court rejected an appeal arguing that the jury  did not allowed to consider that Nethery was drunk and under the influence of  marijuana when he committed the murder.
Campbell and Nathery were the 242nd and 241st executions carried out  nationwide since the US Supreme Court allowed states to resume using the death  penalty in 1976.
Campbell was the second person executed in Washington state since 1963,  while Nethery was the 77th to be put to death in Texas since 1976.
Both executions were carried out shortly after midnight in their  respective time zones.
