Gabriela Sabatini is hoping that in the next few  weeks she will finally lay to rest a recurring nightmare -- and win the one  major title everybody predicted was destined to be hers.
But it would take a brave punter to put money on the South American  super-star succeeding at the French Open Tennis Championships which start at  the newly-expanded Roland Garros Stadium here next week.
She will launch her tenth campaign with a record of only one win in three  matches on European clay after shock defeats at both Berlin and Rome.
A decade ago, when the raven-haired Argentian first exploded on the tennis  scene as a fifteen-year-old to start her long pre-Monica Seles rivalry with  Steffi Graf, she looked to have the perfect game to win the world's supreme  clay-court event.
But ten years later she is still trying.
The looping top-spin and fierce groundstrokes, so effective on slow  surfaces, have taken her to five semi-finals in the French capital. But she  has failed to live up to the early promise and go the whole way.
Her best title chance here probably came last year. She had been playing  really well throughout the tournament and was all but in the semi-finals when  she led American opponent Mary Joe Fernandez 6-1, 5-1.
But suddenly she cracked and lost the match.
That defeat has haunted her ever since. Her world ranking has slumped to  six and her performances have nosedived. She went through 1993 without winning  a title and this year has so far done no better -- although she did manage to  reach the final at Amelia Island.
But Sabatini just flashes a disarming smile at those who have been writing  her off.
"I wasn't depressed about not winning a tournament in 1993," she said,  adding: "I learned a lot of things and that was important to me.
"But you must understand -- I'm not a machine."
Sabatini made it clear that although she accepted that invasion into her  privacy by the 'paparazzi' was inevitable, it made friendship and  relationships difficult to sustain.
