A Russian-brokered ceasefire in the disputed region  of Nagorno-Karabakh went into force Tuesday and appeared to be holding despite  reports of isolated gunshot fire, Armenian and Azerbaijani officials said.
Military leaders of separatist Armenian forces in Nagorno-Karabakh and of  the Azerbaijani defence ministry accused each other of staging" "provocations"  by opening fire but both sides claimed that they had not responded to the  attacks, news agencies reported.
Defence ministers from Armenia and Azerbaijan along with leaders of  Nagorno-Karabakh signed Monday in Moscow a preliminary agreement providing for  a ceasefire as of midnight Monday (2000 GMT).
The agreement, which was to be finalised Tuesday, also calls for the  deployment of military observers at 49 sites along the frontline as of May 24  to be followed by the arrival of 1,800 peacekeeping troops from the  Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).
A five to 10 kilometer (three to six mile) buffer zone was to be carved  along the frontline in line with the agreement which also calls for an  exchange of prisoners and talks on the political status of Nagorno-Karabakh.
The latest ceasefire agreement comes after several failed attempts by  Russia and the international community to end the fighting in the  Armenian-populated enclave located within Azerbaijan.
At least 20,000 people have died in the six-year war -- the longest  running ethnic conflict in the former Soviet Union -- and one million people  have been displaced.
Russian officials have stressed however that, contrary to previous  negotiations, Azerbaijani authorities have allowed Armenian leaders from  Nagorno-Karabakh to participate in the current round of talks.
Baku has in the past maintained that the fighting over Nagorno-Karabakh  was an "aggression from Armenia" and refused to recognise the demands of  Armenian separatist leaders from Nagorno-Karabakh.
The ceasefire agreement comes amid reports that Azerbaijani and Armenian  forces had suffered heavy casualties since fighting intensified in the region  in January.
Armenian separatist troops last year captured large sections of Azeri  territory in fighting including the southwest region bordering Iran and key  strategic centers linking the enclave to Armenia proper.
The military victory of Armenian troops threatens the rule of President  Geidar Aliyev who rose to power in Azerbaijan almost a year ago, ousting  former leader Abulfaz Elchibey.
