Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad  Sunday acknowledged a ceasefire by the British media against his country but  said he needed more assurance to end a near three-month boycott of British  firms.
"We notice an improvement, particularly after the person (London's Sunday  Times editor Andrew Neil) who started such reports, had been transferred,"  Mahathir was quoted by the Bernama news agency as saying.
"We will see whether his transfer will bring about a drastic difference in  the British media reports (on Malaysia)," Mahathir said.
Malaysia has barred British firms from bidding for government contracts  since February 25, following reports in the British media of corruption in  Anglo-Malaysian trade and in Mahathir's administration.
The Sunday Times was singled out for its February 20 article alleging  links between Mahathir and British construction firm Wimpey International.
Neil, who had refused to apologise for the story, which Malaysian  officials described as "a pack of lies," has been seconded to work in New York  for the next seven months on a current affairs programme of the Fox television  network.
The network and the Sunday Times are both controlled by media baron Rupert  Murdoch.
Mahathir said although he welcomed Neil's secondment, he wanted to "wait a  while" before lifting the boycott to ensure the British press had "truly  stopped" its slander campaign against Malaysia.
"He (Neil) was the cause. If we find that the British media reports the  truth and no longer prints lies, there is no reason why we cannot resume  business with them (British companies)," Mahathir said.
The premier maintained that he had no problems with the British  government. "Our quarrel is only with the British media. Because we cannot act  against the British media, we had to decide not to give contracts to British  companies."
London officials have tried in vain since February to convince Mahathir to  lift the boycott, said to have cost British firms millions of dollars in lost  contracts.
