Family and friends mourned Jacqueline Kennedy  Onassis at a private funeral Monday, eulogizing the widow of slain president  John Kennedy as a reluctant legend who displayed great grace under pressure.
Hundreds of ordinary people lined the streets near the St. Ignatius of  Loyola Church to pay their respects to the former First Lady, who died  Thursday night of cancer.
Senator Ted Kennedy remembered his sister-in-law as the woman who "held us  together as a family and a country" in the traumatic days that followed  Kennedy's assassination in Dallas, Texas on November 22, 1963.
"She was a blessing to us and to the nation -- and a lesson to the world  on how to do things right, how to be a mother, how to appreciate history, how  to be courageous," Kennedy eulogized.
Her daughter Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, 36, and John Kennedy, Jr., 33,   spoke briefly to a congregation of relatives and friends that included First  Lady Hillary Clinton.
Schlossberg read a poem by Edna St. Vincent Millay and Kennedy remebered  his mother's "love of words, bonds of home and family and her spirit of  adventure."
"And so farewell, farewell," said her long-time companion, diamond  merchant Maurice Templesman.
Opera singer Jessye Norman sang Ave Maria during communion.
Onassis was to be buried later in the day in Washington at Arlington  National Cemetery next to her husband.
A black hearse bearing the Onassis coffin led a procession of limousines  from her Fifth Avenue apartment to the Park Avenue church where she was  Christened.
The funeral was private, but US television networks filmed the arrival of  Onassis' casket to the church and broadcast the service live in audio. Cameras  and photographers were barred from the church.
Police closed the blocks around the church except to residents and kept  onlookers several blocks away behind barricades.
The service was in keeping with the intensely private life that Onassis  led in the years following the death in 1975 of her second husband, Greek  shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis.
Working in virtual anonymity as a book editor, she fought fiercely to keep  paparazzi at bay and raise her children out of the public eye.
"I often think of what she said about Jack in December after he died,"  said Kennedy. "'They made him a legend, when he would have preferred to be a  man.' Jackie would have preferred to be just herself, but the world insisted  she be a legend too."
"She never wanted public notice -- in part I think, because it brought back  painful memories of an unbearable sorrow, endured in the glare of a million  lights."
The fascination she held for the public was evident in the outpouring of  sympathy and reminiscences about her style and sophistication and the role she  played in creating the aura of "Camelot" during Kennedy's White House years.
As First Lady, she championed the arts, charmed foreign leaders, showcased  the history and traditions of the White House.
In Washington, President Bill Clinton said he did not attend the funeral  because he felt his presence would confict with the "wishes of the family to  keep it private."
"I'll just do the best I can to try to speak on behalf of the nation, a  word of gratitude and appreciation and farewell and perhaps a few personal  remarks as well," Clinton said.
Born Jacqueline Bouvier on July 28, 1929, in Southampton, New York, to a  wealthy New York couple, she studied at Vassar and George Washington  University and worked briefly as the Inquiring Camera Girl for the Washington  Times-Herald newspapers.
Her early assignments included an interview with then Senator Kennedy,  whom she married in September 1953.
During the 10-year marriage, Kennedy Onassis gave birth to two children  who survived into adulthood, Caroline and John, but suffered a miscarriage, a  stillborn birth and the death of son Patrick after 39 hours.
