Kiwi captain Ken Rutherford managed to  share a joke with England chairman of selectors Ray Illingworth, despite the  tourists' 42 run defeat at the Edgbaston ground Thursday.
Asked to give England's performance a mark out of 10, Illingworth replied:  "Seven."
Rutherford was then asked the same question about his side's display and  he jokingly referred it to Illingworth, who replied: "I'd give you seven as  well."
"You fielded pretty well, put the ball in the right places when bowling,  but losing Martin Crowe for nought early on was a big set-back for you."
Rutherford had further bad news about the fitness of his strike bowler  Danny Morrison, who limped off after bowling only six overs and later batted  with a runner because of a hamstring injury.
Rutherford said: "It doesn't look good for Danny and he could well be  sidelined for about 10 days."
England captain Mike Atherton backed Illingworth's low key reaction to  victory.
The Lancastrian, whose 81 in England's 224 for eight won him the man of  the match award, said: "I'm not happy that we dropped too many catches but I  thought we played well.
"The fielding must be improved, and the outcome of the match was touch and  go at one stage."
Illingworth said of young paceman Darren Gough: "His opening spell was  tremendous. He's quick and showed good variation.
"He also got a few chest high from just short of a length which is the  mark of a good fast bowler.
"He also regularly gets his inswinger into the right area, as regularly as  people like Waqar Younis and Wasim Akram do."
Atherton added: "Darren has improved in pace enormously during the last  year or so. The ball certainly flies through and he has a good yorker and  change of pace."
On 25-year-old Shaun Udal, Illingworth said: "I'm reasonably happy but not  totally happy. But you are always a bit nervous making your England debut.
"His line was a bit variable and a little bit too leg side but it was a  difficult day for spinners because of cold fingers and he himself knows he  didn't quite get that right."
dm94am
