Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres arrived in the  French capital Thursday from Oslo for a 24-hour visit that will include talks  with President Francois Mitterrand.
Peres, who had talks with Palestine Liberation Organization leader Yasser  Arafat in the Norwegian capital, was to brief Mitterrand on developments in  the Israeli-Palestinian accord on limited autonomy and Israeli negotiations  with Syria, an Israeli source said.
In an interview earlier Thursday with Israeli state radio, Peres said  Syria was "blowing cool" as the United States endeavoured to bring it back to  the Middle East peace table with Israel.
"We know the Syrians' methods," he told the radio. "Until an agreement is  concluded they blow cool winds in every direction."
"But once it is done, it will be respected," Peres said.
US Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who just ended a second shuttle  mission between Jerusalem and Damascus in three weeks, left Cairo on Thursday  after admitting that there was still a long way to go in the search to bring  peace between Israel and Syria.
Damascus has nonetheless shown interest in an Israeli offer for a phased  withdrawal from the Golan Heights, which were captured in 1967.
Peres and Arafat announced early Thursday after meeting in Oslo that they  had agreed on an agenda for the next round of talks about the occupied  territories, with Peres saying "we are going to negotiate the early  empowerment some time in the future."
By "early empowerment," he meant the transfer of some civilian powers to  the Palestinians in the West Bank regions still occupied by the Israeli army,  after it finished its withdrawal overnight Tuesday from the Gaza Strip and the  West Bank town of Jericho (eds: correct).
Those talks would probably take place in Cairo, Peres said, adding that  further negotiations about the extension of Palestinian autonomy to the rest  of the occupied West Bank would be held in Washington at a date still to be  arranged.
In Paris, the Israeli foreign minister will also meet with Interior  Minister Charles Pasqua before before attending a program Thursday evening in  honor of the late French singer Yves Montand, a friend, who died a year ago.
Before flying back home Friday morning, Peres will hold a final meeting  with Minister for Research and Higher Education Francois Fillon on several  joint educational projects runs by the two countries.
