Yemeni oil exports via the Red Sea port of  Al-Hudaydah were being maintained at normal levels, but deliveries overland to  Yemeni towns were hampered by a shortage of road tankers, Planning Minister  Abdelkarim al-Iryani told AFP Friday.
Iryani said Yemen was exporting crude in exchange for refined oil from  "certain sources," but declined to name the parties involved.
Supplies to northern Yemen from the Aden refinery in the south were cut  off soon after the civil war broke out between rival north and south forces on  May 5.
Yemen produces about 320,000 barrels of oil per day (bpd), of which nearly  one-third is consumed locally. Its crude reserves are estimated at four  billion barrels.
Iryani said oil deliveries were being "dedicated to the army" and  therefore "there is a shortage of tankers." He added oil stocks were  "sufficient."
However, production at the Marib field east of the capital Sanaa was being  maintained at the normal level, Iryani said.
The US company Hunt Oil has continued operations there since the war  started, pumping oil to Al-Hudaydah.
Iryani said southern jets attacked oil facilities at Marib early in the  war, but air defences were adequate and the installations had not been damaged.
However, tankers had stopped visiting the southern port of Mukalla, where  President Ali Abdallah Saleh's southern rival Ali Salem al-Baid is reported to  be rallying his forces.
Many Western oil companies, including BP, Shell, Lasmo, Clyde and British  Gas have already evacuated their staff from Sanaa and Aden.
Asked about the government's future economic priorities, Iryani said  prices for basic commodities and utilities would have to be normalised.
He said electricity and water charges were about 50 percent below actual  production costs, and oil was sold cheaper than in Saudi Arabia, where  production is estimated at eight million bpd.
The government was also planning a "special arrangement" to alleviate the  suffering of the poorest sections of the population, Iryani said, without  giving details.
He accused former prime minister Haidar Abu Bakr al-Attas, a close aide to  Baid in the Yemen Socialist Party (YSP), of playing "the role of saboteur in  every government effort to rectify the economy."
Attas had repeatedly blocked World Bank missions to Yemen aimed at  drafting an economic reform programme, Iryani said.
