King Norodom Sihanouk said his latest proposal  for peace talks between the government and the Khmer Rouge was doomed and that  Cambodia would face more violence and social upheaval, the Cambodian Daily  said Wednesday.
"There won't be any peace talks at all ... because (Co-premier) Hun Sen is  very reluctant ... very adamant against any flexibility vis-a-vis the Khmer  Rouge," the English language daily quoted the king as saying.
The king told the paper that "the agenda to get a ceasefire, or at least   talks, can't be accomplished" and Cambodia faced a future of "more killing,  more fighting, more refugees."
"Unfortunately we will continue to face the continuation of war and there  will be continual misery of the people," he said.
The king called Tuesday on Khmer Rouge nominal leader Khieu Samphan and  Hun Sen to bury the hatchet and proposed holding peace talks on May 27 at his  residence in North Korea.
King Sihanouk, in the interview, said that despite his pessimism, he would  still pursue peace for Cambodia. "I don't want to die before succeeding. I am  very resilient. I never give up," he said.
The king added that we would still push for his peace proposal whereby  certain "acceptable" members of the Khmer Rouge are given senior cabinet posts  in the government in exchange for giving up their control zones, ceasing all  guerrilla activities, and merging their fighters with the royal armed forces.
"The people agree with me 100 percent. Only the politicians have doubts  and among them the toughest is Hun Sen," the king said.
But speaking to reporters last week, the king said the Khmer Rouge had not  changed since their 1975 to 1978 rule that left one million Cambodians dead,  and that the radical faction was only interested in retaking power and  bringing Cambodia back to the "stone age."
The king, who leaves Cambodia on Wednesday to resume medical treatment for  cancer in Beijing, was also quoted as saying in the interview that his health  problems were serious.
"I look well but it is just appearance. And I have arterial sclerosis.  This is also very grave. I expect one day to have a major stroke, and I still  have cancer of the bone marrow," he said.
