The Chadian flag flew over the disputed Aouzou  Strip, a tract of mineral-rich desert territory, Monday after Libya officially  handed it back after 22 years of occupation and conflict, Chadian radio  reported.
The handover took place at Aouzou, the town after which the territory of  114,000 square kilometres (45,600 square miles) in the far north of Chad on  the Libyan border is named, the radio said.
The barren strip of land has been fought over several times by the two  nations.
Libyan Justice Minister Mohammad Hijazi, Chadian Interior Minister  Abderamane Izzo and an official of the United Nations observer team that  monitored Libya's withdrawal made speeches before the Libyan flag was lowered  for the last time.
The last Libyan troops then withdrew from the scene, the radio reported.
The return of the Aouzou Strip to Chad follows a February 3 ruling by the  International Court of Justice in the Hague, upholding Ndjamena's claim to the  area, which Libya had used in the past to back Chadian rebels and launch  military incursions.
The two countries had agreed in 1989 that failing an agreement between  them within a year on the territory, they would call on the court, the highest  legal institution in the United Nations, for a settlement.
Libya had claimed the strip on the basis of agreements reached in the  1930s between colonial powers Italy, then led by fascist dictator Benito  Mussolini, and France, in which the latter handed over the territory in  exchange for an end to Italian claims to Tunisia.
After years of war following Libya's annexation of the strip in 1972, and  the reconquering of most of Chad by troops loyal to then warlord Hissein  Habre, the two sides finally agreed "peacefully to settle" the dispute in 1988  and began to normalise their relations.
Several sources say the territory, thought to be rich in uranium, oil and  other minerals, was sold off by Chad's first president, Ngarta Tombalbaye, to  Libyan leader Colonel Moamer Kadhafi, who then vowed never to renounce his  claim to it.
But Tripoli's relations with Ndjamena continued to improve after Habre was  overthrown late in 1990 by another Chadian warlord, his former advisor Idriss  Deby, the current head of state.
Guests invited to Monday's ceremony by the Chadian government, notably  French troops and representatives of relief agencies, were flown to Bardai,  about 100 kilometres (60 miles) from Aouzou, aboard French military planes,  diplomatic sources in Ndjamena said.
The Aouzou Strip is 1,000 kilometres (more than 600 miles) from Ndjamena,  the roads are in bad shape, and much of Chad is prone to insecurity with the  presence of armed bands.
France deployed a military air and ground force in Chad in 1986, known as  Operation Epervier (Sparrowhawk), to put an end to Libyan military offensives.  Three years earlier, Libya had begun to provide backing to Goukouni Oueddei, a  former ally of Hissein Habre, who then fell out with him.
The force currently currently counts around 800 men.
