Yemen's Foreign Minister Mohammad Bassandawa on  Sunday rejected UN efforts to secure a ceasefire in his country's civil war,  as an Arab League official in Riyadh said the war ha cost 50,000 lives and 10  billion dollars.
Yemen "rejects any UN Security Council interference in its internal  affairs," the foreign minister, a northerner, told reporters here after a  meeting with Arab League chief Esmat Abdel Meguid.
His Egyptian counterpart Amr Mussa said earlier that Bassandawa had agreed  to a UN debate on the north-south civil war following talks with President  Hosni Mubarak.
"Sanaa has agreed that the question of a ceasefire be examined by the UN  Security Council," which was in contrast to its previous stand that the  international community should stay out of the conflict, Mussa said.
Bassandawa himself said earlier that the council "must insist on  preserving Yemen's unity" and reiterated the north's conditions for a  ceasefire with the breakaway south.
"We want an end to the fighting as well as a Security Council decision in  this direction," the foreign minister said. "Then a dialogue could be launched  between the two parties."
He added the south must go back on its May 21 declaration of an  independent state, "because this decision is illegal" under the constitution  of Yemen, which was unified in May 1990.
"Unity happened voluntarily in 1990 and it is still the basis of any  solution," he stressed.
Despite the merger, representatives from the two former states failed to  agree on the economic and political administration of single country.
Bassandawa said the north was in contact with southern officials who  reject separation but not with their leader, Ali Salem al-Baid, whom Sanaa  wants to put on trial for war crimes.
Baid offered an amnesty Sunday to southern soldiers who had been "lured"  to fight for northern Yemen, mirroring an earlier amnesty offer by Yemeni  President Ali Abdallah Salen for Yemenis who had been lured over to the  "secessionists."
In Riyadh, Arab League information officer Talaat Hamed told the Saudi  daily al-Yaoum the war had cost "more than 50,000 lives on both sides." He  said the war had caused "more than 10 billion dollars in damage."
Saudi Arabia and Oman, backed by other Gulf states and Egypt, have urged  the Security Council to call for a ceasefire to the war that has raged in  Yemen since May 5 and to impose an arms embargo on both sides.
The south has welcomed the plan, while insisting that northern troops  withdraw to the old border between conservative, tribal north and the formerly   Marxist south.
But in Sanaa, Deputy Prime Minister Abdelwahab al-Ansi told European Union  ambassadors on Sunday that UN interference would be in violation of the  organisation's charter.
UN action "exposes countries that have far more serious problems than  Yemen to interference in their internal affairs," he said.
The Yemeni parliament also rejected outside interference in the civil war,  saying such action would only serve to encourage secessionists, the official  news agency Saba reported.
Interference by any state, regional or international organisation would  violate the Yemeni constitution, MPs said.
Two SCUD ground-launched missiles landed around the northern capital Sanaa  on Sunday, without causing damage or injuries, a northern military spokesman  said.
A Yemeni military spokesman said northern forces had destroyed four  southern warships east of Aden and shot down four southern warplanes, notably  over the al-Anad airbase 60 kilometres (36 miles) north of Aden.
Northern forces took the airbase two weeks ago but have been pinned down  there on the flatlands by southern air attacks.
Aden's airport, the launch platform for southern warplanes, was heavily  shelled Sunday by northern artillery, the spokesman said.
"The forces of law (the northerners) inflicted major damage on Aden  airbase and airport," the spokesman said, in a statement carried by the  northern news agency SABA.
The northerners said their guns were less than 14 kilometres (eight miles)  from Aden.
