Defence officials from Armenia and Azerbaijan began  Russian-mediated consultations here Monday over the embattled Nagorno-Karabakh  enclave in a new bid to set up official negotiations for a peace settlement.
Russian President Boris Yeltsin's special envoy Vladimir Kazimirov said  the idea was to bring the parties together and arrange formal talks to reach a  final agreement on an overall ceasefire, the withdrawal of troops and the  stationing of a peace force from the Commonwealth of Independent States  accompanied by international observers.
Russia and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe have been  trying since February to get Armenia and Azerbaijan to accept the package.
Kazimirov and the CSCE's Swedish envoy Jan Eliasson spent last week in the  two countries and in the enclave, inside Azerbaijan but under Armenian  control. More than 20,000 people have been killed in six years of fighting.
Azerbaijani opposition deputies meanwhile said they strongly opposed any  compromise agreement with the Armenians.
Members of 15 opposition parties, including the Popular Front of  ex-president Abulfaz Elchibey and the pro-Turkish party Mussavat signed a  declaration to that effect published by the Azeri news agency Turan.
The declaration described as "shameful" a protocol reached earlier this  month in Bishkek, Kirghizstan, where Moscow sources said Baku had for the  first time accepted that the enclave's mainly Armenian population should be  recognised in their own right at negotiations on the conflict, which has  claimed 20,000 lives over the past six years. The Bishkek talks otherwise  failed to bring a breakthrough.
The opposition parties accused Azerbaijan's leaders of being "incapable of  guaranteeing the country's territorial integrity" and denounced a statement by  parliamentary speaker Rassul Guliev, who said Saturday it was "imperative" an  accord was reached to end the conflict. Such a statement "betrayed  Azerbaijan's interests," signatories to the declaration said.
