The Philippines, moving to mollify an angry  Indonesia, vowed Friday to arrest and deport foreigners who take part in a  planned regional conference here that deals with alleged military repression  in East Timor.
The May 31 to June 3 private meeting in Manila has sparked a diplomatic  row, with Jakarta threatening retaliation if the meeting takes place.
President Fidel Ramos' hardline stance was a turnaround from his first  position of distancing his government from the conference, while saying that  it would be unable to stop it short of unconstitutional methods.
Local organizers charged that the shift was a "clear surrender to  Indonesian pressure," and vowed that the meeting will go ahead as planned.
Ramos said Friday that he considered as "inimical to the national  interest" the planned arrival of eight exiled East Timor dissidents led by  Juan Ramos Horta, special representative to the Portugal-based National  Council of Maubere Resistance (CNRM) which includes the anti-Indonesian  Fretilin guerrilla group.
He ordered the justice department to "exclude" them from the meet.
Indonesian troops occupied East Timor in 1975 and annexed it a year later.  Manila recognizes Jakarta's sovereignty over the territory but the United  Nations does not.
Jakarta, which had hosted the launching of peace talks between Filipino  Moslem rebels and the Philippine government last year, threatened Thursday to  cancel the scheduled resumption of the talks next month if the East Timor row  were not resolved to its satisfaction.
Press Secretary Jesus Sison told AFP that the eight dissidents would be  "arrested and deported" if they entered the Philippines.
Local convenor Renato Constantino denounced the ban, saying that "to  placate (Indonesian President) Suharto, Ramos will do everything, even  surrender our own dignity as a race." He vowed to continue with the conference.
Meanwhile a spokeswoman for Horta, one of the key participants in the  seminar and accused by Jakarta of sponsoring the event, reacted angrily to  Manila's announcement, saying it was a "capitulation".
Speaking in Sydney, Margherita Tracanelli said: "The capitulation of the  Philippines government to Indonesia is a disgrace.
"Indonesia is shooting itself in the foot. By listing Ramos Horta, they  are recognizing his authority as a leader of the East Timorese resistance,"  she said.
The Indonesian foreign ministry Friday welcomed the Filipino ban, saying  the event was not an academic seminar, but part of Horta's campaign to "attack  and discredit Indonesia which leads to disruption towards Indonesia's  territorial integrity."
Indonesian academic George Aditjondro, who published a study on East Timor  putting the death toll of the November 1991 massacre by Indonesian soldiers at  271 killed and 200 missing instead of the official count of around 50 killed  and 60 missing, reacted strongly to the ban.
He was to have attended the conference.
"This action shows two things. First, the Philippines has sacrificed his  own democracy, and second Indonesia as a big brother is successful in pushing  its own way upon the Philippines," he told AFP by telephone.
Earlier, Philippine Trade Secretary Rizalino Navarro said the conference  was "likely to have a major negative impact" on bilateral economic ties.
He cited the withdrawal of Indonesian businessmen from a May 26-28 East  Asian Business Conference in the aftermath of the East Timor row, adding that  residents of the southern Philippines were "angry" about the prospects of  "jobs, trade and investment opportunities lost."
Total bilateral trade reached 389.3 million dollars in 1993 with Manila  having a 292.78 million dollar deficit due mainly to oil imports, the trade  department said.
