The southern road from Kigali to the  Burundi border is awash with refugees, government soldiers, militiamen and  "patriots" in a region that could become the frontline as rebel Rwanda  Patriotic Front (FPR) closes in.
FPR forces have already captured large chunks of the north and east of the  country and are moving to the centre.
By Friday they were reportedly less than 10 kilometres (six miles) from  the southern highway leading out of Gitarama, 50 kilometres (30 miles)  southwest of Kigali.
The FPR claims it controls Ruhango, south of Gitarama, but AFP saw no  rebel troops on the main road through the town Friday.
The Rwandan military presence has been stepped up considerably over the  past few days in this town further south, where the torrent of refugees  splits, some heading north, some south.
Towards Nyanza, three kilometres west of the town, government soldiers  were putting young men through a crash course in military training.
Military vehicles were bringing wounded soldiers to the communal hospital,  some of them coming in from Kigali, where shelling and the exodus of staff has  effectively closed the hospital.
Sitting at the side of the road, eyes fixed on the hills to the east,  soldiers were waiting while young "patriots" checked passing cars.
Some of them were "Interhamwe," officials of the youth wing of the late  president Juvenal Habyarimana's National Republican Movement for Democracy and  Development (MRND).
Those who became part of the so-called president's militia after  Habyarimana was killed on April 6 in a suspected FPR rocket attack on his  aircraft stand accused of massacring civilians from the minority Tutsi tribe  in retaliation.
They acquired arms and training from the army to defend Rwanda against the  "invader from Uganda," meaning the FPR.
The war has thrown up all kinds of brigands and partisans, all of them  united in their hatred of the FPR.
The road is strewn with a succession of roadblocks, manned by peasants  looking for rebel infiltrators. Some of them go through the motions of  inspecting identity papers and ask foreigners where they come from.
An adolescent armed -- like most of the peasants -- only with a club, had  the temerity to ask a policeman escorting journalists for his papers, and  despite putting the youth in his place, the policeman ended up showing the  travel permit issued by the government.
His authority scarcely ruffled, he explained: "You have to see it their  way, there are rebels going around in stolen uniforms."
At another roadblock, a militiaman was brandishing a huge bow with  steel-tipped arrows, while a local policeman was checking cars.
Rifles come all ages and sizes, and several militiamen have Chinese-made  grenades tucked in their belts.
"Yes, we know they are old and they don't always work, but what else can  we do when the United Nations has slapped on an arms embargo?" said a student  who had come down from Kigali and wound up in charge of a roadblock.
All of them said they would fight to the death and were sure of victory.  But many were very scared, and looked ready to cast off their uniforms and  melt into the crowds of refugees walking into the unknown in search of safety.
"Civil defence" also spills over into outright terror. FPR sympathisers  are mercilessly hunted down, kidnapped and killed.
Overnight Thursday, at least two people, a woman and child, were shot dead  and several others were wounded when gunmen opened fire on refugees squeezed  into the Kabgayi camp near Gitarama, probably simply because most of them  happened to be Tutsis.
