Riot police clashed here Tuesday with thousands of  students shouting anti-American slogans who were trying to march on the houses  of two ex-presidents they blame for a 1980 massacre of South Korean  pro-democracy activists.
The students, shouting "We oppose America, the main culprit of Kwangju  massacre," emerged from the main gate of Yonsei university at dusk making for  the Seoul homes of former presidents Roh Tae-Woo and Chun Doo-Hwan.
Witnesses put the number of students at 5,000, and said many were wielding   iron bars and hurling paint and bottles at the police.
There were no immediate reports of serious injury.
The three-deep phalanx of shielded riot police formed a human and steel  wall blocking the student march on an eight-lane highway leading to the former  presidents' homes one kilometer (almost a mile) away, AFP reporters said.
"Kim Young-Sam reveal the truth. Execute the massacrers," the students  shouted as the police lobbed tear-gas grenades on the road and fired volleys  into the crowd to prevent it from marching forward, they said.
The lead students, wearing gas masks and waving iron bars, held high  banners denouncing the United States, which dissidents here say gave tacit  consent to the bloody crushing of the pro-democracy movement in the  southwestern city of Kwangju in 1980.
Former presidents Roh and Chun were ranking military officers in the  military-backed government at the time of the 1980 crackdown which left at  least 200 people dead and hundreds more wounded.
The violence in Seoul errupted as students and dissidents massed here and  in 10 other cities to commemorate the 14th anniversary Wednesday of the  massacre.
In Kwangju, AFP photographers said the city was largely quiet Tuesday,  after colorful rallies earlier in the day in which the students staged a mock  military parade, and civilians thronged to take flowers to the graves of those  who died in 1980.
A stream of mourners, many of them with bouquets of flowers in hand,  clogged the 3.2 kilometer (two mile) access road to Mangwol Cemetery in the  suburban Kwangju, where some 100 victims of the 1980 uprising were buried.
A few truckloads of students wearing military fatigues drove through the  city center in a mockup of the parade by martial law troops 14 years ago, as  5,800 riot police took positions at strategic places in this city.
Earlier Tuesday, Chun and Roh were sued for the second time in a week on  charges of overturning the government and manslaughter in the course of what  is now called a military coup.
The National Alliance for Democracy and Unification of Korea (NADUK) filed  lawsuits with prosecution authorities in a dozen provincial cities nationwide,  demanding punishment of Chun and Roh and 33 other military commanders.
The NADUK claimed in a statement that the government of President Kim  Young-Sam, a former dissident, was providing protection for Chun and Roh in  return for their suppport of Kim during the 1992 presidential election.
It demanded that the government shed fresh light on the incident and  reveal who gave the first order to fire into the crowd in Kwangju.
Kim ended his three decades in the opposition and joined forces with Roh  and his ruling party to run for the presidency as the ruling Democratic  Liberal Party candidate.
After taking office last year, he publicly described the Kwangju incident  as a pro-democracy uprising and agreed to compensate the victims.
But, he has not accepted a demand by Kwangju citizens that he designate  May 18, the day the week-long uprising started, as a national anniversary,  apparently for fear that it would hurt his power base.
The pro-opposition Hankyoreh Shinmun (newspaper) said 18 generals  currently serving in the military had been promoted for their roles in the  crackdown.
