Voters flocked to the polls Tuesday as Malawi  held its first multi-party elections since independence, set to end three  decades of rule by iron-fisted veteran President Kamuzu Banda.
Offices were deserted as long queues of voters grew before dawn outside  polling stations in Blantyre, the economic capital of the southern African  nation.
"Reports from all over the country show that there has been a turnout of  about 90 percent," an official in the independent electoral commission,  Raphael Mhone, said some hours before the presidential and legislative polls  closed at 6:00 p.m. (1600 GMT).
Banda, who officially turned 89 on Saturday but is believed to be at least  93, did not vote, after calling on Malawians late Monday to show the world "we  are politically mature and we can behave like ladies and gentlemen."
Staying in his Sanjika Palace here, Banda was registered in Zomba 40  kilometres (25 miles) away. An aide said that if he was flown or driven there  with his usual security arrangements, "we will be accused of intimidating  voters."
The head of state, who has led his Malawi Congress Party (MCP) and the  nation since independence from Britain in 1964, faces three contenders for the  presidency.
The man tipped to win is a former aide gone into opposition, Bakili Muluzi  of the United Democratic Front (UDF), who voted amid a crowd of joyful  supporters in his native Machinga district, about 150 kilometres (93 miles)  from here, and said his main aim was to combat poverty.
Trade unionist Chakufwa Chihana, who spearheaded the campaign for  political pluralism in 1992 and is backed by the Alliance for Democracy,  appeared to have support among intellectuals and in the sparsely populated  north. The other candidate Kamlepo Kalua of the Malawi Democratic Party.
In general elections to a new 177-seat parliament following the end of  one-party rule, the main duel was between the UDF and the MCP, the only two of  eight parties to stand candidates in all constituencies.
Most Blantyre shops owned by Asians were closed, apparently for fear of  looting. "We will open after the results are announced and we are assured  there is no trouble," one storekeeper, Issa Osman, told AFP.
But after 3.8 million Malawians were called to the polls, election  commissioner Mhone said, "We have so far not received reports of  irregularities," adding that the vote was likely to be billed free and fair.
Shops owned by Banda, whose Press Holdings conglomerate controls 30  percent of Malawi's economy, were open and unguarded by security police.
"The government blundered not to declare May 17 a public holiday. Who can  work today?" asked civil servant Ben Phiri, on his way home after voting in  the centre of town.
"We just want to vote to continue the process of change after the  referendum," voter Kalonga Stambuli said. "We don't care who becomes the next  president so long as it's not Banda."
"We should, however, get some indication of who is winning by 12  midnight," Ndirande returning officer Esther Msowoya said.
Polling officials said some voters had to have procedures explained to  them on the spot to enable them to choose their candidate, after dipping their  finger in indelible red ink.
In the rural Mzedi district, some 20 kilometres (12 miles) from Blantyre,  voting official Wilfred Tembo said some people had mistaken the wastepaper bin  for the ballot box.
Nearly 300 international observers were deployed to monitor the vote. The  radio -- Banda has not allowed television in Malawi -- was to broadcast  results as they were released and the final outcome was expected to be known  on Thursday.
