Tigers are facing the threat of extinction in  India -- the last bastion of the great cat -- because of continuous poaching  sparked by demands abroad for the animal's organs, experts say.
"The tiger is under renewed threat once again," said Arin Ghosh, who heads  Project Tiger, a conservation programme the Indian government launched in  1972, and which until recently was seen as a success story.
"It is an endangered species ... because of poaching to meet the demand of  trade of tiger bones and other parts," Ghosh said in an interview. "The threat  from poachers is real."
Indian officials say the demand for tiger bones is high and unabated in  such countries as Taiwan, China and South Korea, where the animal's organs are  used to make medicines, wines and soups.
The traffic is apparently so profitable that Indian poachers now prefer to  escape with the animal's more valuable bones and leave behind the tiger's  skin, which is difficult to camouflage.
"If the present trend is not halted, the tigers may come close to  extinction by the turn of the century," warned Ashok Kumar of TRAFFIC-India,  an affiliate of the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF).
The Indian government is not sitting idle.
India is home to some 3,750 tigers, or 60 percent of the world population.  That number is down sharply from the 4,334 counted in 1989 -- the first time  the count has fallen since the start of Project Tiger over 20 years ago.
Indian officials say they are forming "strike forces" to take on poachers,  and the environment ministry has set up a "tiger cell" to oversee the  nationwide campaign to save the cat, as well as activated its intelligence  cells.
The authorities' problems are compounded by a lack of interest in the  tiger's survival by poor villagers who live on the edge of tiger reserves and  depend on the forests for a living.
"There was indifference earlier because not much was done for the local  people," said Ghosh. "We are trying to build a stake for locals through  ecological development works."
But both officials and experts argue that Indian efforts to preserve the  tiger would come to nothing unless Taiwan, China and South Korea cracked the  whip on the booming trade in the animal's organs.
The danger was highlighted when the New Delhi police seized 287 kilograms  (631 pounds) of tiger bones from a Tibetan refugee camp in September 1993, the  result of at least 20 tigers being killed.
Indian officials say tiger bones are sold for 250 dollars a kilogram (2.2  pounds) in China, where they are used for making a variety of valued  medicines.
In Taiwan, a bowl of tiger penis soup, which is believed to boost  virility, costs 320 dollars, while a bottle of wine made from 10 grams of  powdered tiger bone can be had for 10 dollars.
Auctioneers deal in tiger claws, eyes, whiskers, pelts and testicles. The  skins, when they are smuggled out of India, head mostly for the Middle East  and the West.
About one million tigers reportedly stalked the earth in 1900, and in  India itself about 40,000 tigers roamed the wild before the country's  independence in 1947. The Balinese, Sumatran and Caspian species are already  extinct.
"Poaching is continuing unabated (in India)," said Kumar. "The enforcement  measures are not adequate."
