The Palestinians will keep their headquarters  and institutions in Jerusalem whatever Israel says, the PLO leader on the  occupied West Bank declared defiantly on Monday.
"We will not accept any change in the status quo," Faisal Husseini told a  press conference.
"Orient House is here to stay," the PLO chief said of the building he runs  as a quasi PLO headquarters in East Jerusalem.
"Orient House is part of the peace process, part of the existence of  Palestinians in Jerusalem. Orient House will continue serving our people."
The angry statement came after Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin on  Friday issued barely veiled threats against any PLO move to turn Jerusalem  into its self-rule headquarters.
Israel would do "everything necessary" to ensure the PLO respected the  Declaration of Principles for autonomy and set up self-rule bodies in the West  Bank town of Jericho.
"There have been developments in Jerusalem in recent years which should  not have happened," he said, referring to Orient House, which opened in  October 1992 as offices for the Palestinian delegation to the Middle East  peace talks.
Rabin's threats came after recriminations in Israel over PLO chairman  Yasser Arafat's call for Moslems to launch a holy war to free Jerusalem. He  also said the autonomy agreement could be torn up at a later date.
However the right-wing clamour subsided after the PLO reaffirmed support  for autonomy and peace.
Husseini also put a different interpretation on the Declaration of  Principles, noting it set aside Jerusalem until the third year of autonomy.
"It is part of the agreement that the Palestinian institutions in  Jerusalem and their existence will be respected. No procedures will be taken  against these institutions," he said.
The Palestinians list between 150 and 200 "institutions" ranging from  trade unions to academic, cultural and sporting associations.
One of the newest is the PLO's Palestinian Economic Council for  Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR) which is to oversee the economic  aspects of autonomy.
It was set up this year in the suburb of Al-Barid which straddles the  Jerusalem-West Bank border.
PECDAR member Samir Abdallah said the Israelis wanted the offices shifted  to Jericho and had refused to put in telephone lines.
The military administration denied the charge. Spokeswoman Major Elize  Shazar said: "It takes a lot of time to put in phone lines."
Abdallah said most of the longer-established institutions in Jerusalem had  Israeli permits, but not Orient House or a new Palestinian statistics centre.
"It is inconceivable for the institutions of the Palestinian authority to  ask the Israelis for permits," he said.
Husseini reiterated the Palestinian claim to share Jerusalem, the eastern  sector of which Israel captured from Jordan in the 1967 war. The sector was  quickly annexed and Jerusalem declared the eternal, united capital in 1980.
"We believe that East Jerusalem will be the capital of the Palestinian  state but at the same time we are talking about a free open city," Husseini  said.
Israel has settled thousands of Jews in East Jerusalem since expanding the  municipal boundaries deep into the West Bank. Massive building projects are  continuing.
The Jewish population of the east today slightly outnumbers the Arab  population of 150,000.
