Two RAF Hercules transport planes  airlifted 148 foreign evacuees, most of them British, to Cyprus Thursday from  Sanaa as they fled the fighting in war-torn Yemen.
The evacuees who arrived at Larnaca airport later boarded a British  Airways airliner bound for Gatwick airport, in southern Britain.
The BA plane was due to touch down at 1:20 a.m. (0020 GMT) Friday. The  planes had flown in from Djibouti to Sanaa earlier Thursday to pick up the  evacuees.
British construction worker Michael Wild said he had heard the blast from  a Scud missile fired by southern forces into the centre of Sanaa on Wednesday  from his hotel 1,000 metres away. It had shattered his hotel room windows.
He quoted local Yemenis as saying that 43 people had been killed and 10  injured in the attack.
The official agency SABA said Wednesday 25 civilians had been killed in  the attack on the Yemeni capital.
A Hungarian neuro surgeon, who asked to be not identified, said "medical  supplies are extremely low" at the main Al-Thawra hospital in Sanaa where he  had been working.
He said the operating theatres in the 500-bed hospital were barely  functioning and virtually all the hospital foreign staff mostly Bulgarians and  Indians had left.
About 10 Jordanian doctors arrived at the hospital a few days ago, he said
He added about 15 Somali refugees caught in the fighting between rival  north and south forces were admitted with serious bullet wounds. "At least two  of them died later," he said.
Pilot Flight Lieutenant Nick Young said communications at Sanaa airport  were "excellent" and praised the help offered by the Yemeni authorities.
He said he saw no damage to the airport, despite reported bombing raids by  southern jets when the conflict erupted last week.
There were 75 evacuees on one plane and 73 on the other. About 20 were  Americans, but there were also Dutch, New Zealanders, Swiss and Hungarians on  board.
The evacuees were only allowed to bring out a maximum of 20 kilos of  luggage per person.
Oil workers who were working with Yemen-Hunt Oil in the Marib field in  northern Yemen said about 200 oil workers had stayed behind to keep operations  running.
Some said Sanaa appeared to be a "ghost town" with many shops closed, and  long queues at petrol stations.
Wild also added that the southern Yemen Socialist Party building in the  capital had been devastated in an attack and the Italian embassy had been hit.
More than 4,000 foreigners have now fled the country since fighting  erupted between northern troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh and  southern forces backing his rival Ali Salem al-Baid.
