President Bill Clinton has learned the hard way  that talking tough with Washington's major trading partners in Asia is not the  way to win concessions from China or Japan.
Despite his insistence that trade is the key to boosting the domestic  economy, and that Asia as the world's fastest-developing region is vital to US  trade, Clinton has embroiled himself in economic disputes with both Beijing  and Tokyo.
Clinton has to decide in the next three weeks whether to disrupt the  entire US-China trade relationship because of Beijing's human rights record --  a quandary of his own making after he linked the two last year.
With Japan, his tough tone has resulted in bilateral trade talks breaking  down altogether, although both sides say they want to return to the  negotiating table and the fallout has been less than in the China case.
Whatever Clinton does on China he will face criticism -- either from the  powerful business lobby who say withdrawing China's privileged trade status  would be the equivalent of an economic nuclear bomb, or the human rights lobby  who say China has failed to meet Clinton's conditions for progress.
But the experience has been a salutary lesson for the Arkansas state  governor who made much during his election campaign of President George Bush's  "coddling" of a repressive Beijing government and pledged to be much tougher.
One of Clinton's basic problems was that "when he was campaigning and when  he took office he was ignorant of the Far East," said Penelope  Hartland-Thunberg, an economist with the Center for Strategic and  International Studies (CSIS).
He had visited Japan, but as governor of Arkansas seeking to sell his  state's products, not as a national statesman.
As for China, Clinton seemed to regard it as just another developing  country rather than a major force in world politics and a potential third  superpower, Hartland-Thunberg said.
Clinton lived up to his campaign pledges in May last year, issuing an  executive order saying that he would not renew China's most favored nation  (MFN) trading status beyond June 1994 unless it made "significant, overall  progress on human rights."
But he rapidly changed his rhetoric as it became apparent that his policy  of keeping Beijing at arm's length until it started meeting his conditions was  not working.
In September Clinton adopted the line of "constructive engagement,"  involving a flurry of visits to Beijing by senior US officials.
But then economic officials in Clinton's own administration backed big  business' cry that withdrawing MFN, putting at risk a 40 billion dollar a year  trade relationship and 160,000 US jobs, would be a self-defeating disaster.
These mixed signals from Washington encouraged Beijing to think that there  was no danger of losing MFN and weakened the incentive for it to comply with  Clinton's conditions, many analysts here say.
A panel of experts chaired by former US Secretaries of State Henry  Kissinger and Cyrus Vance sent a report to Clinton this week urging him to  work behind the scenes with Beijing to persuade the Chinese to make the  necessary human rights moves by June 3 in return for a pledge not to condition  future MFN.
For the future, they urged Clinton to develop a more balanced relationship  with Beijing in which human rights would be pursued through such channels as a  bilateral human rights commission.
They also warned that Clinton cannot afford to be at odds with two of its  major Asian partners at once.
"For Washington simultaneously to alienate both Tokyo and Beijing, for  example, could produce a shift in alignments that would be of historic  magnitude and highly adverse to America's national interests," the explained.
Clinton has so far been unable to resolve the trade dispute with Japan,  which centers on disagreement over ways to measure progress in opening Japan's  markets and reducing its 60 billion dollar trade surplus with Washington.
But US-Japanese trade talks have a history of Japan being forced into  taking action, and things have been complicated by domestic political upheaval  which has seen three Japanese prime ministers in less than a year.
Both sides insist they do not want a trade war, and are hoping to hold at  least informal discussions in the next month or so.
