A former militant fascist who fought for Benito  Mussolini's short-lived fascist rump state at the end of World War II was  named Wednesday to head Italy's parliamentary foreign affairs committee,  officials said.
Mirko Tremaglia, 67, joined aged 17 the ranks of the Nazi-backed northern  Italian Social Republic republic formed by the fascist dictator at Salo.
Tremaglia has since 1946 been a member of the Italian Social Movement  (MSI), the main constituent of the neo-fascist National Alliance that is part  of new Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's governing coalition.
Speaking to AFP after his appointment as chairman of the chamber of  deputies committee was announced, Tremaglia admitted his wartime allegiances  but added: "Fascism is dead."
The MSI's policy had always been one of "denying nothing and restoring  nothing" in terms of Italy's fascist past, and that stance was "still valid,"  he said.
The appointment of five Alliance ministers in Berlusconi's fledgling  adminstration provoked outrage among Italy's European Union (EU) allies.  National alliance leader Gianfranco Fini earlier described Mussolini as the  greatest statesman of the century.
Tremaglia said concerns expressed abroad over the presence of Alliance  members in the government had not been voiced at the official level.
"The debate on these so-called concerns is being fed (and) manipulated by  the Italian left," he said. The Alliance "has its accounts in order and is  extremely democratic."
Questioned on the foreign policy he intends to promote, Tremaglia said he  favoured a "Europe of nations" in the "Gaullist" sense of the word -- an echo  of earlier comments by Fini.
He recalled earlier MSI criticism of the Maastricht Treaty, which he said  was "a bad point of departure because it favours a fiscal Europe in which the  banks are setting the political strategy."
The treaty had been badly conceived because it took no account of other  European countries, he said, adding that he favoured the creation of a  "confederation of European states."
He added that the Italian parliament opposed the entry of Croatia and  Slovenia into the European Union while certain conditions concerning Italian  minitories living inside the two countries had not been fulfilled.
He cited the Croatian provinces of Istra, Fiume and Dalmatia, calling them  "Italian lands in cultural and historical terms."
Although it was at present not realistic to press for alterations to  current borders, "in 20 or 50 years everything could have changed," he said.
Tremaglia joined the MSI leadership in 1954. One of his first moves was to  found the Italian tricolor committees to press for voting rights for Italians  living abroad.
Berlusconi's government is the first to have nominated a minister for  Italian expatriates -- a portfolio Tremaglia failed to secure despite  proposing several parliamentary motions on creating such a post.
