Air Inter employees, striking against foreign  competition in the French domestic airline industry, disrupted traffic at Orly  airport on Tuesday.
Air Inter is the domestic arm of Air France, which is controlled by the  state and is in severe financial trouble.
The strikers were protesting at the imminent exposure of their company to  foreign competition, particularly in the light of an agreement between French  Transport Minister Bernard Bosson and British Airways and Air UK at the  weekend giving the British companies access to the Orly terminals south of  Paris.
British Airways and its French subsidiary TAT had obtained a ruling by  European Union authorities that Orly must be made available to foreign  airlines. The German Lufthansa company said on Monday that it would eventually  seek acces to Orly.
Hitherto foreign airlines have been restricted to Charles de Gaulle  airport which is on the northern side of the capital.
About 50 demonstrators from Air Inter sat on the tarmac around a Boeing  727 airliner with passengers on board and operated by the French Air Outre-Mer  (AOM) airline, delaying take off for nearly an hour.
Meanwhile about 1,000 demonstrators headed for the neighbouring Orly-Ouest  terminal.
They had previously blocked the access roads to the two terminals,  shouting "British, Bosson, collusion". Passengers were obliged to leave  vehicles which had brought them to the airport and to walk to catch flights  operated by airlines unaffected by the strike.
Air Inter had cancelled most of its flights for the day because of the  strike.
Security forces had been sent to Orly but were not in evidence as the  demonstration got under way, correspondents there said.
AOM protested about obstruction of access roads.
"Without becoming involved in the causes of the conflict which are clearly  obsolete, AOM finds it unacceptable that passengers and clients using other  flights at Orly-Ouest should be severely penalised by such behaviour," AOM  said.
Orly is a hub for domestic flights and for traffic to the Mediterranean  basin. The foothold gained by foreign airlines is seen as a significant step  in deregulation of the French airline market.
Bosson, speaking in Saint-Malo in northern France, said on Tuesday he  rejected the "two caricatures of protectionism and ultra liberalism". France,  the leading exporting nation on a per capita basis, did not fear competition  if it was fair, healthy and managed.
In 1990 and 1992 France had accepted "the greatest possible liberalism in  the skies" and that it was necessary "to go back on these rules towards  healthier competition".
Bosson said: "I perfectly understand the strike today and the worries of  the employees but a strike is not going to provide competition against the  others.
"We have to tell Air Inter, as well as Air France, that there is more  competition every day."
Bosson had said on Monday that he was trying to make the best of a  situation which he had inherited from previous governments and that he was  opposed to the ultra-liberal thinking which, he said, was rampant in Brussels  and was inspired mainly by Britain.
The French government is meanwhile seeking understanding from the  commission in Brussels so that it can inject about 20 billion francs (3.5  billion dollars) into Air France to save the company from collapse.
