Family members gathered Thursday at the side of  cancer-stricken Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, home from the hospital after  deciding there was nothing more doctors could do for her, a spokeswoman said.
John Kennedy Jr. and daughter Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg were with their  mother at her apartment on Manhattan's Fifth Avenue.
"I think all the members of the family are distressed by the medical  reports." said Senator Edward Kennedy, who flew in from Washington with his  wife Victoria.
"All the members of the family love her very deeply. We wanted to be here  this evening. She's resting comfortably," he said Wednesday.
Onassis, 64, widow of slain US president John F. Kennedy and Greek  shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis, checked in Monday at New York  Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
The hospital said she was suffering from "serious complications of her  malignant lymphoma" and received further diagnostic evaluation and treatment  before being released Wednesday.
"In accordance with the patient's clearly expressed wishes and with the  concurrence of her physicians, she has been discharged home," the statement  added.
Onassis revealed in February that she has non-Hodgkins lymphoma. The  former first lady also underwent surgery for a bleeding ulcer in April.
"She's home, she's comfortable and she has family around her. There was  nothing more to do for her at the hospital and she wanted to go home," said  Onassis' spokeswoman, Nancy Tuckerman.
"She will not have any further treatment," said Tuckerman. "The disease  has progressed and there is nothing they can do for her."
Tuckerman said doctors were unable to say what her prognosis was.  "Everyone is different. Obviously she's very ill."
"It is just another phase of her illness which she's facing with great  fortitude," Tuckerman said.
In Washington, President Bill Clinton said he and his wife Hillary had  been in touch with Onassis in recent days and receiving regular updates on her  condition.
"She's been quite wonderful to my wife, to my daughter and to all of us,"  said Clinton. "We're thinking about her and praying for her."
Visitors to the canopied apartment building on Fifth Avenue included her  sister, Lee Radzill Ross, and their half-brother Jamie Auchincloss.
Congressman Joseph Kennedy, son of the late Robert Kennedy, arrived with  flowers and candy. Onassis' niece Maria Shriver also was reported to have  visited.
An intensely private woman, Onassis has shunned the role of American icon  since her husband's assassination in Dallas in 1963 and her stormy second  marriage to Onassis.
The image of her most remembered is also the most painful: the young wife  leaning over her husband's slumped body seconds after an assassin's bullet  struck their open limousine in Dallas, Texas on November 22, 1963.
A figure of glamour and sophistication, Onassis became the center of  controversy at home when she wed a second time to a Greek tycoon in what many  said was a marriage for money.
A highly publicized legal battle with his heirs ensued when Onassis died  in 1975, leaving his wife virtually nothing.
Long the prey of paparazzis and tabloids, who dubbed her "Jackie O,"  Onassis has fought fiercely over the years to protect her family's privacy.
But, out of the limelight, she has made a career as a book editor, first  at Viking Press and then Doubleday, handling a dozen books a year on  non-fiction subjects such as ballet and the performing arts.
Even since being diagnosed with cancer earlier this year, she has worked  three days a week at her office, taking work home with her.
