The captain of a British Airways (BA) jumbo jet died  on a flight from London but his two co-pilots steered it to a flawless landing  at Tokyo's Narita airport Thursday without the passengers knowing about the  misfortune.
The captain, David Robertson, a 52-year-old Briton, died of a heart attack  while napping during a regular break when the Boeing 747-400 was flying over  Russia some seven hours after takeoff, a BA spokeswoman in Tokyo said.
The death was not made public in flight but the crew did make an appeal  for a doctor among the 331 people onboard, passengers said.
The passengers were also told to wait before disembarking while a medical  team brought out Robertson's body.
"There was an announcement in English that someone was taken ill but it  did not specify who it was," a young Japanese male passenger told a Tokyo  television network.
The BA spokeswoman, Misao Suzuki, said that a British doctor among the 312  passengers checked Robertson and attributed his death to myocardial trouble. A  post-mortem analysis was being conducted by Japanese police, she said.
"There is an operational manual under civil aviation law and the two  co-pilots navigated the plane accordingly," Suzuki said. "The manual does not  say the passengers should be informed of such a death."
The plane touched down at Narita at 8:32 a.m. (2332 GMT) with the two  British co-pilots at the controls. "The landing was smooth and we didn't know  at all about the death," a Tokyo company official told Jiji Press.
But, to many of 270 Japanese among the passengers, the incident was an  instant reminder of a China Airlines Airbus crash at Nagoya airport, central  Japan, exactly one month earlier.
Only seven of the 271 people on board survived the crash on April 26,  which a preliminary investigation has pinned on equipment failure and pilot  problems.
"When I got up and moved toward the lavatory, I bumped into a foreigner  who looked like a doctor, and he was dashing toward the cockpit," Yukinobu  Sakaguchi, a 28-year-old Nagoya company employee, told the newspaper Asahi.
"I thought there might a sick person in the first class cabin," he said.  "Not long ago there was an accident at Nagoya. I feel lucky to be here."
