Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin prepared  to meet here Monday with his Ukrainian counterpart Efim Zviagilsky to discuss  the Crimean crisis one day ahead of crucial talks in Kiev between Ukrainian  and secessionist leaders.
The meetings come amid reports of a military build-up in the  Russian-speaking republic following Friday's decision by the Crimean  parliament to restore a 1992 constitution, a move viewed by Kiev as tantamount  to an independence declaration.
Talks between Chernomyrdin and Zviagilsky, scheduled to begin at 1100 GMT,  were to focus on possible means of defusing the crisis that Russian officials  have warned could degenerate into war.
The meeting came after British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd discussed  the situation in Crimea with Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, in  particular Ukraine's appeal to the United Nations that it help resolve the  crisis,  Kozyrev aide Galina Sidorov was quoted by Interfax as saying.
Kozyrev, who met Sunday with Hurd in the northern city of Murmansk, said  Russia was not not opposed to UN assistance, adding that a resolution from the  UN Security Council calling for a political settlement would help the parties  concerned, according to a source quoted by the news agency.
In Simferopol, Crimean interior minister Valery Kuznetsov said that police  forces were assembled in several barracks in response to the mounting tension,  Interfax reported.
The news agency also quoted President Leonid Kravchuk's representative in  Crimea, Valery Gorbatov, as saying that members of the Ukrainian National  Guard also remained in their barracks but that they were not placed in a state  of combat readiness.
Crimean sources meanwhile said that Ukraine had moved 29 armored vehicles  in Simferopol late Sunday and the Ukrainian Deputy Interior Minister Valentin  Nedrigailo said about "two dozen" armored vehicles arrived Saturday in the  region, Interfax reported.
Nedrigailo said the arrival of the military hardware was part of "a normal  scheduled reinforcement of national guard units".
The Ukrainian parliament on Friday declared the Crimean constitution to be  "illegal" and gave the local legislature up until next Monday to reverse its  decision.
Crimea -- a Black Sea republic of 2.5 million residents, around two thirds  of whom are ethnic Russians -- has been moving towards closer ties with Moscow  since the January election of Russian nationalist Yuri Meshkov to the  presidency.
The Crimean peninsula was part of Russia until then-Soviet leader Nikita  Khrushchev handed over the territory to Ukraine in 1954 as a "gift"  celebrating the friendship between the two Slav peoples.
A delegation from the Crimean parliament was to arrive in Kiev Tuesday for  talks and one source quoted by Interfax said the secessionist leaders would  push demands for joining the Russian ruble zone and for establishing a Crimean  citizenship.
He said they would also demand that Crimean conscripts be allowed to serve  only on the peninsula in line with a resolution adopted by the local  parliament Friday.
Kravchuk reiterated Sunday ahead of talks that he rejected the Crimean  constitution and said local leaders would have to back down from their claims  for autonomy from Kiev.
"This settlement must take into account a sole directive -- no change in  the status of Crimea and no change to Ukraine's territorial integrity,"  Kravchuk was quoted by Interfax as saying.
