The All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce  has called on the government to set up private banks to supply individual  businesses with much-needed cash for capital construction, the China Daily  Business Weekly reported.
The radical move was called for by the deputy director of the FIC's  economic department, Gu Qixuan.
According to FIC, one of China's nominally democratic parties, the private  sector is being starved of capital by the strict credit policy that has seen  private firms repeatedly denied loans by state banks, which give priority to  key government projects.
At a time when individual bank deposits exceed 1.2 trillion yuan (138  billion dollars) and a further 400 billion yuan is lying idle in public  pockets, private firms are still plagued by a severe capital shortfall for  expanding production and upgrading manufacturing technology, Gu said.
The creation of private banks would give the private sector access to this  vast reservoir of funds, he added.
The FIC stance would seem to be in direct opposition to government policy,  which has repeatedly stressed the importance of credit controls in checking  inflation.
In July last year, the government slapped tight controls on credit, amid  an investment-fuelled economic boom that had resulted in a surge of growth in  the money supply and rampant inflation of nearly 20 percent in major Chinese  cities.
While some local governments and private businessman were less than  enthusiastic about the resulting capital shortfall, China's economic tsar, Zhu  Rongji, made it clear earlier this year that continuing inflationary pressures  meant there could be no loosening of the credit line in 1994.
However, Gu said the current policy was damaging the non-state sector,  with 10 percent of private firms having suspended operations due to financial  problems and a further 30 percent reporting running losses.
Government officials should "change their prejudice" against indvidual  businessmen who have become a major contributor to state coffers under China's  new tax regime, he added.
According to Gu, the number of private businesses in China will top  370,000 by the end of 1994, up 55 percent from the end of 1993, while their  registered assets will surge 193 percent to 200 billion yuan.
Given China's aim to diversify its service sector as part of moves towards  a market-oriented economy, the private sector should be treated on an equal  footing with state firms, he said.
