Dissident writer Alexander  Solzhenitsyn said Friday in his first public address to his countrymen that he  was returning to a "tortured Russia" that offered no clear future to its  citizens.
"I feel redoubled pain for Russia's last two years which have been so very  trying for people in their lives and spirits," the 75-year old Nobel  literature laureate told about 4,000 people gathered in the center of the  Pacific port city.
"I know that your present life is extremely and unusually tough, entangled  in a myriad of mishaps and that there is not clear future for you and your  children."
"I know that I am returning to a Russia tortured, stunned, altered beyond  recognition, convulsively searching for itself, for its own true identity," he  stated.
Solzhenistyn arrived here after a brief stopover in the former labour camp  colony of Magadan, ending 20 years in exile that began when he was expelled  from the former Soviet Union for writing "Gulag Archipelago", an epic  chronicle of the horrors in Soviet labour camps.
The writer, who arrived with his wife Natalia, mother-in-law and two of  his three sons, was to make a cross-country journey by train to Moscow where  he will live in a downtown apartment until construction on a countryhome is  finished.
In his address, Solzhenistyn said he was eager to acquaint himself with  post-communist Russia and to understand the profound changes that have taken  place in his homeland since the fall of the Soviet regime which he strongly  condemned in his works.
"Everywhere I go, I hope to meet and listen to local residents, so as to  test or revise my own judgement," he stated.
"I am eager to understand truly and accurately your condition, to enter  into and share your worries and your fears and to search together for the  surest path out of our 75-year quagmire."
"My heart longs for the day when our country's long suffering people  might finally find a ray of light," he said.
Solzhenitsyn was arrested in 1945 after making derogatory remarks about  Stalin in a letter and was sentenced to eight years in forced labour camps,  followed by internal exile.
His novels "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich", "Cancer Ward" and  "The First Circle" were hailed as epic works that exposed Soviet terror to the  world.
The dissident writer has vowed to stay away from politics and to work on  the spiritual revival of Russia.
