The death of two Catholic workmen, shot by  Protestant gunmen at a Belfast construction site Tuesday, points to a new  scenario in Ulster violence wherein loyalists could become the chief threat,  experts said.
The two workers were shot as they were eating lunch by men who leaped from  a car and opened fire with automatic weapons, an attack later claimed by the  Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), police said.
Loyalists have claimed more than half the 28 victims of sectarian killing   in Ulster so far this year.
In 1992 and 1993 the loyalists for the first time in years eclipsed the  republicans in Ulster assassinations.
A loyalist militia customarily claims a killing, portraying the victim as  either a republican militia member or sympathizer.
And, customarily, police and families of victims claim there was no such  link.
Active loyalist militia, all illegal, are the Ulster Freedom Fighters  (UFF), the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), by far the largest, and the Red Hand  Commando (RHC).
Active members are estimated at 300 to 400.
The Protestant militia, active killers at the height of the "troubles" in  the 1970s, fell into relative dormancy during the 1980s.
But over the past three or four years, under a new, younger and more  radical leadership, they have come to life again, setting themselves up as the  last line of defense in maintaining Ulster as part of the United Kingdom.
They claim the British government would like nothing more than to divest  itself of Northern Ireland, creating a united Ireland in which Protestants  would be a minority.
The loyalist militia see the political evolution in Ulster in recent years  as "treason" against them that justifies increased military action.
They point to the Anglo-Irish accord of 1985, which gave Dublin a say in  running the province, and the revelation that London had been maintaining  secret contacts with the Irish Republican Army last year.
The loyalists are equally incensed by last December's Anglo-Irish Joint  Declaration which offered Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing, a full place in  peace talks once the IRA renounced violence for three months.
The loyalist militias say they will continue targeting the republicans if  Dublin continues to involve itself in Ulster's affairs, or if the IRA declares  a cease-fire after getting the concessions it wants from London.
Ulster police say the loyalist militias, hitherto checked only by limited  arsenals, may soon have explosives in sufficient quantities to rival the  massive bomb attacks of the IRA.
