Anger and shock gripped this village in  the Syrian-controlled Bekaa Valley after the abduction of a pro-Iranian Moslem  guerrilla chief in a slick Israeli pre-dawn airborne raid Saturday.
Mustafa Dirani, 46, is held responsible by Israel for the capture of  airman Ron Arad whose plane was shot down over south Lebanon in 1986 during an  Israeli bombing raid of a Palestinian refugee camp.
Israel praised itself for the operation, seen here as a slap in the face  for Lebanon and Syria.
But the Iranian-backed Hezbollah said in a statement in Beirut that the  kidnapping "will not deter us from continuing to liberate our land whatever  the cost."
"It proves once again that our nation has no other choice but armed  resistance.
"From now on it is therefore necessary to consider all Lebanese regions  zones of confrontation, where the people will always resist against the Jewish  menace," the statement added.
The Lebanese army said Israeli commandos used two helicopters, flying over  the Mediterranean sea, uninhabited areas of the Christian Kesrwan region and  through a canyon before touching down near Qsarnabaa.
Witnesses and partisans of Dirani's pro-Iranian "Resistance of the  Faithful" said the choppers landed on the Niha hill overlooking the village  and from there the commandos, assisted by local accomplices, drove to Dirani's  house.
Some said they had seen an exchange of light signals before the operation.
According to Dirani's 26-year-old brother Sobhi: "The whole thing lasted  10 minutes."
Sobhi, who was handcuffed by the soldiers, said the commandos stormed the  house when everyone was asleep and went straight into Dirani's bedroom,  grabbing him while others pointed machine guns at his three children.
It was a bloodless operation which met no resistance and coincided with  the most important Moslem feast of Al-Adha.
The former secretary general of Hezbollah Sheikh Sobhi Tufaily told a  protest rally in the Bekaa town of Brital: "How can a leading figure be  abducted from his home without the authorities lifting a finger to do  something?"
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said the "flawless, very bold and  pinpoint operation allowed us to seize a man who is very dangerous for Israel.  It shows our army has a long reach and can do the impossible to retrieve our  missing."
Dirani is the second Moslem fundamentalist abducted by Israelis in Lebanon  since Sheikh Abdel Karim Obeid was snatched in an almost identical operation  from his south Lebanon home in 1989.
The men are seen as bargaining chips in moves to secure the release of  Arad and gain information on five other soldiers missing since 1982 who are  believed to be dead.
Israeli sources said Dirani, who heads the Resistance of the Faithful  group, once led the underground Oppressed on Earth organisation which claimed  responsibility for abducting and executing around 10 Lebanese Jews in  1985-1986.
Israeli military sources said Dirani had been taken to Israel and was  being kept in an undisclosed hideout.
Israel hopes Dirani, who has close links to Hezbollah, will confirm  whether Arad is being held by Iranian Revolutionary Guards, the Pasdarans.
Iran has denied holding Dirani, but Amal leader Nabih Berry, now the  speaker of parliament, charged four years ago that Dirani had sold Arad to  Iran for half a million dollars.
Relatives, neighbours and a religious cleric who arrived in an Iranian  diplomatic car arrived Saturday to comfort the stricken family here.
Many people blamed government's negligence for the kidnapping.
Outside the house, Dirani's militiamen searched the hillside for traces of  the commandos, one of them emerging triumphantly with a first-aid kit  containing syringes, plasma and shekels.
Six kilometres away (four miles) units from Syria's 35,000 troops in  Lebanon manned a checkpoint near the Lebanese Army barracks of Ablah. The army  also has an air base in the area.
