Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe, is Tuesday to  begin a four-day state visit to Britain at the invitation of Queen Elizabeth  II.
It will be Mugabe's first state visit to Britain in the 14 years since he  took over as head of state from the former colonial power in elections in 1980.
British Minister of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Lynda  Chalker, extended the invitation in January while on a working visit to  Zimbabwe.
The visit to Britain, the single largest investor in Zimbabwe, coincides  with an investment forum jointly organised by the Confederation of British  Industry (CBI) and the Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries (CZI).
Trade between Zimbabwe and Britain last year stood at 2.4 billion Zimbabwe  dollars (300 million dollars), and Britain is one of the major donors to  Zimbabwe's economic reform programmes.
In 1991, a year after Zimbabwe started implementing the World Bank-backed  economic reforms, it received the largest share of British aid to Africa.
Britain has said it will continue supporting Zimbabwe's economic reforms  provided they stay on track.
Optimism is high over the investment conference, which is expected to  expand the already strong bilateral economic ties.
But Mugabe has to restore British investors' confidence lost after failure  to honour promises made at a 1989 London conference
"According to the CBI, to make amends, the president has to give his  personal commitment to the reform programme," , the national ZIANA news agency  said.
British investors would want clarification on Zimbabwe's controversial  land acquisition reforms, the agency added.
British businessmen remain concerned about Zimbabwe's commitment to  foreign investment, analysts said.
Other issues Mugabe needs to address include the arrogance of customs and  immigration officials to business travellers, as well as the telephone system  which has been described as a "national joke".
The Southern African Association, a trade organisation of 100 British  companies called established in 1983 to promote business in the sub-continent,  has said a bilateral investment protection agreement has to be signed urgently  between to set the minds of British businessmen at rest.
But CBI chief Howard Davies, told ZIANA in London Monday that foreign  investor interest in Zimbabwe is high.
He said the investment climate has improved with trade liberalisation  taking place as part of the economic reforms launched four years ago.
Zimbabwe is seen as having a better chance of attracting foreign  investment than South Africa because of its long political stability, low  wages and a well educated labour force.
Mugabe, who will be accompanied by several cabinet ministers, senior  government officials and businessmen, is scheduled to start his visit Tuesday  by attending the horse guards parade with the Queen at Buckingham Palace and  then visit Westminister Abbey.
He is expected to hold talks with Prime Minister John Major and the  President of the Board of Trade, Michael Heseltine.
