Maverick politician and self-made millionaire  Bernard Tapie won a respite from the taxman on Tuesday but it was little in  comparison with the sea of troubles faced by the 51-year-old, under increasing  pressure from his creditors and in the courts.
Tapie was granted a three-year respite to pay 70 million francs (12  million dollars) in back taxes owed by his football club, Olympique Marseille.
But it was a minor relief for Tapie who faces a growing avalanche of  difficulties as European elections approach on June 12.
As if by coincidence, the spate of troubles has grown as it became clear  that Tapie's radical left list could well make 10 percent of the votes on June  12.
Tapie says it is no coincidence and an attempt to oust him politically and  prevent him from winning the rich prize of the mayoralty of Marseille, his  Mediterranean stronghold, in municipal elections due in 1995.
The Olympique-Marseille president faces a demand by his bankers, the  state-owned Credit Lyonnais, to reimburse 220 million dollars of debts and  charges of embezzlement and fraud in the running of some of his companies, his  luxury yacht and the football club.
Magistrates have made two new applications to get Tapie's parliamentary  immunity lifted, and parliament will consider them on June 13, the day after  the European vote.
The applications concern the yacht Phocea. One alleges that the boat was   registered as a freighter when it was for Tapie's exclusive personal use and  the other that he diverted cash from some of his companies to pay for its  upkeep.
Tapie has further been charged with complicity in corruption and suborning  witnesses in a match-fixing case involving Marseille and the northern team  Valenciennes.
A budget ministry spokesman said Tuesday the three-year reprieve had been  granted "to save Olympique-Marseille," one of France's most prestigious clubs  and the 1993 winner of the European champions cup.
The club was relegated after the match-fixing case and lost 21.2 million  dollars in the year ending June 30, 1993, with 69.6 million in debts, most of  them due for repayment by June 30 next.
The budget ministry said that if the club went bankrupt, the players'  contracts would be nullified and Marseille would not be able to make any money  on transfers.
Credit Lyonnais meanwhile said Monday it had managed to lay hands on 100  million francs (17.8 million dollars) held in the politician's Groupe Bernard  Tapie bank account in Paris.
The bank is demanding payment by next Thursday of a first installment of  450 million francs (77.6 million dollars) that is immediately due out of the  220 million total.
On May 20, Credit Lyonnais called in bailiffs and experts to value antique  furniture and works of art at his expensive left-bank mansion to prevent them  being disposed of. The furniture is worth an estimated 350 million francs  (60.3 million dollars).
In Marseille meanwhile, magistrate Pierre Philippon questioned Tapie for  five hours over 80 million French Francs (14.2 million dollars) missing from  the club's accounts.
"I accounted for the entire 80 million," Tapie said afterwards. He added  that the missing money had been paid out as special fees during several  transfers, including that of English international Chris Waddle, who was  signed from Tottenham Hotspur.
