Pete Sampras saw off the challenge of  promising Russian Yevgeny Kafelnikov to give the United States a winning 2-0  lead in the World Team Cup here Tuesday.
The match failed to live up to its billing as a contest between the  current and future world number ones as Kafelnikov showed little of the talent  that has lifted him into the top 20 this year.
When they met at the Australian open in January, Sampras squeezed through  9-7 in the 5th set, but he was never pressed on this occasion, winning 6-3 6-3.
He took an early break to lead 3-1 when Kafelnikov double-faulted and,  although the Russian broke back in the seventh game, Sampras won his fourth  break point to lead 5-3 and serve out the set.
Kafelnikov broke back for 1-1 in the second set when Sampras hit a  backhand long. The American slipped into careless errors occasionally but  covered the net very well and his greater consistency led to him breaking  again for 3-2 and finally for the match.
Michael Stich survived an unpredictable encounter with Cedric Pioline,  winning 6-4, 2-6, 6-2 to earn Germany an unassailable 2-0 lead over France.
Both players held serve with ease through the first nine games until  Pioline, under no pressure, netted a forehand and put a backhand wide to hand  Stich the set.
Pioline struck the ball with greater purpose in the second set while Stich  completely lost his way, taking only one of the first 17 points. He missed the  easiest of opportunities and looked thoroughly dejected but bounced back  swiftly in the final set.
But he had to work hard for his lead, breaking for 2-0 on his fifth break  point with a low backhand volley. A second break in the final game gave Stich  the match.
"I didn't play great tennis but we won as a team and that's good", said  Stich.
"It was a bit windy in the first set. The second was useless and in the  third I was more aggressive and had better rhythm on all my strokes. That's  the only set I could be happy with."
He is still having problems whith the shoulder injury that put him out of  the Italian open.
"I still have a bit of pain. It's not perfet yet, but I'm getting  treatment every day", he revealed.
Carlos Costa gave Spain a winning 2-0 lead over Australia by beating Mark  Woodforde 6-4, 6-2.
