Roman Herzog, Germany's newly elected president, is a  conservative jurist who opinion polls say would have had little chance of  reaching the office if selection had been by popular vote instead of by a  special convention.
Aged 60, with an imposing high-domed forehead and a glittering eye behind  metal-rimmed spectacles, he has the reputation of enjoying the good life and  and employs an ironic turn of phrase.
The most conservative of the main candidates in the race for president,  Herzog was little known to the public at large, owing his rapid rise from head  of the constitutional court to president to the backing of Chancellor Helmut  Kohl.
In recent opinion polls, only 20 percent of German voters backed Herzog  for president, versus 60 percent who favored his Social Democratic rival  Johannes Rau.
But this posed little problem since Germany's president is elected by a  specially-convened 1,324-member assembly of federal members of parliament and  delegates of the 16 German regional legislatures.
Herzog, a jurist by training, has been president of Germany's important  constitutional court since November 1987, which he joined as vice-president in  1983.
He caused a stir earlier this month by saying in an interview that he  opposed the principle of double nationality and that foreigners who did not  take German nationality be asked to leave the country.
Apparently realising the harm his remarks might have caused, Herzog  forthrightly condemned racism a few days later following an attack on Africans  by skinheads in Magdeburg.
A member of the Christian Democrat Union (CDU) since 1970, he was born  April 5 1934 at Landshut in Bavaria, the son of a museum curator, and is an  active Protestant evangelist.
As education minister of Baden-Wuerttemberg, he distinguished himself by  taking the Latin matriculation examination anonymously to underline the  importance he attributes to study of the language, and passed brilliantly.
While in the same region's interior ministry, he insisted that 300 student  demonstrators who occupied an American military intallation pay the 25,000  marks cost of the police operation to evacuate them.
He also introduced CS gas and rubber bullets for the regional police.
But despite such examples of severity, he is considered a fair defender of  the law and the court he presides over has, for example, reaffirmed the right  to hold protest demonstrations and recently ruled to decriminalise possession  of small amounts of marijuana.
To questions of whether he is to the right or left, Herzog prefers to  reply with a riddle.
Asked his plans for the presidency, he invariably replied that his aim was  to be "a figure of unity" and "a champion of the citizen in the face of the  state and the parties".
Not the first choice of Kohl, and hesitant to throw his hat in the ring  when his name did come up as a late runner, he eventually took on the profile  of the perfect conservative candidate.
He is married and has two sons.
