Merv Hughes has lost his place in the Australian  cricket team to tour Sri Lanka and Pakistan later this year.
Concern over their inability to take wickets with the new ball has also  cost fellow Victorian fast bowler Paul Reiffel a trip.
Queensland opening batsman Matthew Hayden was the other notable omission  from a 15-man team named here Thursday along with the announcement of Mark  Taylor as the new skipper.
"Leaving Merv out is going to hurt the big fella, but I think he's the  sort of guy who can bounce back," Taylor said.
Australian Cricket Board chairman Alan Crompton said: "The selection  committee was concerned about the fitness and form of the new ball bowlers,  especially their inability last season to take wickets in Test matches with  the new ball. Hence the opportunity is being given to other bowlers.
"It does not mean that those on the reserve list of those strike bowlers  omitted have been discarded for next season - we will need our in form pace  battery for our onslaught against England next summer."
The party to tour Sri Lanka and Pakistan in September to November includes  an extra spin bowler, Gavin Robertson of New South Wales, at the expense of a  batsman. The team will tour with just seven recognised batsmen.
Selectors included in-form young batsmen, Michael Bevan and Justin Langer,  and new-ball bowlers Damien Fleming and Jo Angel.
Surprisingly, there was no room for Hayden who had limited opportunities  in South Africa after forcing his way into Australia's one-day side with a  series of big scores in Sheffield Shield.
Taylor, the successor to Allan Border who ended his 156-test career last  week, will take away his first Australian team in the build-up to next  season's home Ashes series against England.
"It's got a youthful look about it. On a tour like Sri Lanka and Pakistan  we're going to need enthusiasm," Taylor said.
"Matthew Hayden is probably the unlucky one to miss out. He's been a very  good player over the last two or three seasons and he had limited  opportunities in South Africa.
