Georgian and Abkhazian authorities signed an  agreement Saturday on a ceasefire and deployment of an intervention force in  the troubled separarist republic, the Russian foreign ministry said.
The accord, signed by both sides under mediation from Moscow, would  "prevent the resumption of military action and facilitate the return of  (Georgian) refugees to their homes," the ITAR-TASS agency quoted the ministry  as saying.
The agency gave no other details on the mechanics of the accord, but  sources close to the negotiations said disagreements remained over the future  status of Abkhazia and conditions covering refugees, with the separatists only  willing to accept the return of Georgians who took no part in the fighting.
The signing came a day after the Georgian parliament refused to ratify the  accord.
The deputies feared the accord, which calls for deploying Commonwealth of  Independent States (CIS) troops in a 12-kilometre (seven-mile) buffer zone  separating Abkhazia from the rest of the country, would lend increased  authority to Abkhazia's claims to independence, which Georgia rejects.
In protest at the parliamentary snub, President Eduard Shevardnadze  offered his resignation Friday and proposed abolishing the presidency.
The Russian foreign ministry added that the Russian government was certain  "the warring parties will strictly honour their commitments."
It said: "Russia is ready, together with the United Nations, to contribute  to securing a global solution to the conflict and to ensure the current stage  is followed by fresh efforts to reestablish order in the region."
An earlier bilateral truce accord signed April 4 in Moscow failed to come  into effect.
Despite opposition from UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to   Russia's attempts to act as a peacekeeper within the CIS, Moscow has stepped  up efforts to secure a settlement to the conflict since signing a major  friendship and cooperation accord with Tbilisi on February 3.
Between August 1992 and September 1993, fighting between Georgian and  Abkhazian forces claimed several thousand lives, while more than 200,000  Abkhazia-based Georgians were forced to flee their homes.
