Bulgarian dream striker Hristo Stoichkov is a  defender's nightmare.
Unfortunately, referees, officialdom and even his own managers find him  equally hard to handle.
Love him or hate him, however, they cannot ignore him -- or leave him off  the teamsheet.
Johan Cruyff, his Barcelona boss, knows all about Stoichkov's downside, as  does the Bulgarian manager, Dimitar Penev, who did not dare drop him for the  World Cup qualifier against Israel even though the player blatantly defied a  warning by turning up late for the match.
Stoichkov, 28, who arrived in Spain in 1989 from CSKA Sofia, has a history  of trouble-making going back to 1985, when he was banned for a whole year  after being implicated in a Bulgarian Cup final brawl.
Things seemed to be looking up, however, after the chunky forward moved to  the Nou Camp, boasting a joint share of Europe's presitigious Golden Boot with  Mexican Hugo Sanchez.
Bulgaria's top goal-scorer in 1988-89, he had revealed his fine skills to  Cruyff with three European Cup Winners' Cup goals against Barcelona.
He did not wait long, however, to show the darker side of his Jekyll and  Hyde character, assaulting a referee in a Super Cup encounter with Real Madrid  and earning another lengthy suspension.
He then rebelled when Cruyff snapped up Brazilian striker Romario, a buy  which saw Stoichkov's goal tally tumble from last year's total of 20.
But Stoichkov backed down -- and his change of heart saw him forge a  formidable partnership with Romario on the way to the Spanish title.
If Stoichkov can keep his temper in check he could prove to be one of the  key players of the World Cup.
The tournament was almost deprived of his powerful running and clinical  left-foot finishing when Bulgaria left it to the final 20 seconds of their  last qualifying match against France before scoring the goal that booked them  their place in the United States finals.
For once, it was not Stoichkov who stole the limelight but his striking  partner Emil Kostadinov.
Stoichkov, however, is the man Bulgaria will pin their hopes on to give  them a first ever victory in the World Cup finals and guide them to the  quarter-final place that Penev has set as their target.
