Northern forces of President Ali Abdallah  Saleh  tried to lay siege to this key port-city on Thursday, as the United  Nations prepared to send vital aid to trapped Somali refugees.
Artillery battles were raging a few dozens kilometers (miles) of Aden,  bastion of southern leader Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid, an AFP  correspondent said.
Saleh, quoted Thursday by the northern-run agency Saba, said his forces  had scored "one victory after another against the separatist forces," in a  reference to the southerners.
Aden, a port-city of half a million, was "almost surrounded" following two  weeks of civil war, a northern spokesman in the capital Sanaa earlier told AFP.
But he said the objective was not to enter the city, so as "to avoid war  on the streets, but to put it under blockade, to bomb military targets," in  order to force Baid and his aides "to surrender or quit the country."
Southerners have insisted Aden was well defended and they can keep the  northerners at bay. Fighting was still going on for control of the key air  base of Al-Anad, north of here.
Meanwhile, the United Nations said it was to send a food convoy to a camp  in southern Yemen where thousands of Somali refugees who fled their own civil  war are trapped in crossfire.
Rolf Guldberg, UN High Commissioner for Refugees representative in Sanaa,  told AFP the Somalis were in an "active war zone" and the convoy could only  leave once fighting subsided.
The refugees were either still in the al-Kud camp on a beach near  Zinjibar, 50 kilometers (32 miles) northeast of Aden, or were sheltering at a  nearby village, he said.
The region has been the scene of fierce fighting and hundreds of the  Somalis have reportedly been killed in crossfire, while the plight of the  remainder was grim.
The current republic of Yemen was created on May 22, 1990, with the merger  of the former conservative North and Marxist South states.
Baid on Wednesday hinted for the first time that the two-week old war  could cause the south to break away.
"After all these massacres and these sacrifices, I don't know how we are  going to live together again," Baid told the London-based Saudi Middle East  Broadcasting Television.
"I don't know what direction we will finally take but I can tell you that  it was Ali Abdallah Saleh who has proclaimed secession in declaring war."
Neither side nor the International Committee of the Red Cross have so far  issued a casualty toll.
But ICRC official in Sanaa Arnold Luethold told AFP his organisation had  counted a large number of POWs on both sides.
