Britain's Chris Eubank once again walked the  tight-rope to keep his World Boxing Organisation (WBO) super-middleweight  title at the King's Hall here Saturday night -- earning a split decision over  local fighter Ray Close .
Eubank held off the busy twelve round effort of Ulsterman Ray Close to win  the verdict -- but the judges appeared to be watching different fights.
The champion was awarded the decision by a massive margin of 118-112 by  Gene Glenn from Ohio, while London official Roy Francis scored it a similarly  one-sided 117-114 in Close's favour.
Rhode Island judge Clark Sammartino scored it 115-114 to Eubank.
A year ago in Glasgow Eubank salvaged his title by knocking Close down in  the 11th round to earn a draw, and the Irish had been calling for a re-match  ever since.
In the early part of Saturday's fight, Eubank once more showed some of his  infuriating lethargy. But he dominated the second-half of the contest to such  an extent that there was no real protest from the full-throated 8,000 crowd.
There was the usual booing, but the knowledgable Belfast supporters knew  that their man had not done enough to wrench away the title.
It was Eubank's last fight before the ITV cameras and he is due to sign an  eight-fight deal with Sky Television, which will reputedly earn him a  staggering 10 million pounds.
But on this showing, there is unlikely to be a hectic dash to buy  satellite dishes.
It was typical Eubank, doing just enough to win in his eighth consecutive  championship fight.
He had promised to get the job done early but after landing some  purposeful blows at the start, there was too much posing and not enough  punching.
Eubank saw the light after five rounds. He had no alternative but to step  on the throttle and from then on Close could not turn the bout his way.
Eubank jabbed with authority in the sixth and was largely the master from  then on. But much of the work was not pretty to watch, although the champion's  left hand came more into evidence.
