The Thai Air Force has announced it will  pre-screen news reports by a national radio service here, as the Thai Army  banned political-oriented programs from another service, radio officials said  Thursday.
Independent News Network (INN), which broadcasts on a frequency leased by  the Thai Air Force, will have its news reports screened 30 minutes in advance  of broadcast, an INN official told AFP.
The monitoring by an Air Force committee was to continue for one month, he  said, adding that the terms of the screening would be "negotiable" later. The  INN official asked not to be identified.
The Air Force condition was prompted by INN reports last week which gave  the initials of four of 17 Thai members of parliament allegedly linked to the  drug trade, the official said.
General Vichit Sookmark, the minister of defence, was quoted in television  reports Thursday as saying the decision was part of the Thai military's vow to  avoid involvement in politics.
An Air Force official confirmed for AFP Thursday that a committee would  pre-screen INN news programs, but would not say what programs or news the  committee might consider unacceptable.
Meanwhile, Nation Radio, produced by The Nation, an independent daily  newspaper, was taken off the air Monday and instructed to stop producing  programs that addressed political topics, according to a Nation source.
Nation Radio was closed down as "a warning" two weeks ago for airing a  talk show featuring a guest with anti-military views, according to Lieutenant  General Anusorn Krisnaseranee, the Thai armed forces spokesman.
The Nation's broadcast frequency is leased by the Thai Army's Territorial  Defence Division.
That warning lasted three days. This week, the army told the station to  cut its politically-oriented news programs and talk shows, a Nation source  confirmed.
Only music and advertisements have been broadcast for the past two days.
Suthichai Yoon, editor-in-chief of the Nation Publishing Group, who  co-hosted the controversial talk show two weeks earlier, said in Thursday's  edition of his paper that programs were withdrawn in protest.
"Since we can't have the freedom to comment freely on the country's  political, military and social affairs, we have decided to pull out all our  commentary programs from the radio station," he was quoted as saying.
Thursday, the Thai Army chief, General Wimol Wonwanich, told television  reporters that Nation Radio had been using the "army's mouth" to criticise the  military.
Radio is the most developed, and believed to be the most influential,  media in Thailand. More than 200 stations of about 600 on the air are owned or  leased by the military.
