Britain paid a last and poignant  farewell Friday to John Smith, the popular and silver-tongued Labour leader  destined to be prime minister until he died of a heart attack last week at age  55.
Political leaders from Britain and Europe were among the 900 mourners who  packed the blue-carpeted, red sandstone Cluny parish church where Smith had  worshipped with his wife and three daughters when they were at home in  Edinburgh.
More than 1,000 people lined the gray, windswept street outside for a  glimpse of the funeral, transmitted live in churches throughout Britain.
One of them was Westminster Central Hall, across from the House of Commons  where Smith's oratorical skills had been legendary. Dozens of MPs came to  Westminster to view the funeral.
Here in his hometown, taxi drivers donned black ties in hommage to the  politician.
Smith, whose staid, Scottish banker-like appearance belied his rapier wit  and stinging rhetoric, was liked and respected throughout the political  spectrum. He had no apparent enemies.
Prime Minister John Major, frequently the butt of Smith's acerbic attacks  across the House of Commons dispatch box, after his death called him "a  formidable opponent, but never an enemy."
Smith was most commonly seen as a man of the people, close to his Scottish  roots, and, according to numerous opinion surveys was headed to become prime  minister after the next general elections in 1996.
Colleagues and clergymen, friends and family eulogized Smith in the hushed  and vaulted chapel, just a few hundred metres from the Smith home.
Donald Dewar, Labour's front-bench spokesman on social security and one of  Smith's oldest political friends, called him "a man of transparant decency and  openness. He was one of us, not one of them. He was on the side of the people,  and they knew it."
Those who remembered Smith as "dark sober-suited and safe" did not know  the man, said Dewar, drawing smiles from Smith's widow, Elizabeth and  daughters Sarah, 25, Jane, 23 and Catherine, 20.
"He could start a party in an empty room, and often did, filling it with  good cheer and Gaelic songs and always argument and disputation," said Dewar.
"He enjoyed people and loyalty was the prime virtue.  He would walk through  walls to help a friend, and I can bear witness to that."
Smith was to be buried in a private service on Saturday on the tiny  Hebridean island of Iona, the ancient burial place of Scottish kings where  Smith and his family often vacationed.
Among the mourners in the simple wooden pews were Major, Liberal Democrat  leader Paddy Ashdown, and Speaker of the House of Commons Betty Boothroyd.
Most of the shadow cabinet was at the service, including possible Labour  leadership contenders Tony Blair, Gordon Brown and John Prescott.
