President Nelson Mandela faces a week in  which he must start plotting South Africa's future following historic all-race  elections.
In charting a course for South Africa, Mandela faces an enormous task in  trying to meet the expectations of the black majority, reassuring the white  minority, enticing foreign investment and stamping out political violence.
On Tuesday he will deliver a speech in parliament in Cape Town in which he  is expected to spell out the government's plan for the future following the  African National Congress' victory in April 26-29 elections.
The new National Assembly, or parliament, convenes on May 23 for a session  that is expected to last about a month. It met for the first time on May 9  when Mandela was elected as president and 400 parliamentarians were sworn in.
Already the relative peace that has held since the election has been  shattered by the massacre by gunmen of 12 people aged between 13 and 25 in  Tokoza black township, east of here, Friday night. Ten of the victims were  lined up against a wall and shot execution-style.
The killings have sparked fears of renewed clashes in Johannesburg   townships between residents supporting the ANC and Zulu-nationlist Inkatha  Freedom Party (IFP) supporters who live in migrant worker hostels.
Last year at least 1,600 people were killed in the eastern townships,  which have borne the brunt of political violence that has claimed 10,000 lives  countrywide in the four years since former president Frederik de Klerk lifted  a ban on the ANC.
But Mandela can take heart from the words of IFP leader Mangosuthu  Buthelezi -- now a minister in the government of national unity -- who  Saturday urged his supporters to work for reconciliation and peace with their  political foes.
"Go out and break down the barriers that divide you from your political  oponents," he said at a rally to celebrate his party's election victory in his  KwaZulu-Natal province power-base.
Although the ANC won a resounding victory in the national poll, it lost to  the IFP in KwaZulu-Natal.
The IFP came in third nationally, after the former ruling National Party  (NP), and together the three parties make up the government of national unity  which will last for five years until the next elections.
Buthelezi told his supporters that peace was essential to ensure economic  development.
"No businessman will want to invest in this region if his life is in  danger," he said. "No investor will want to build factories if their factories  are going to be burned down."
One of Mandela's major tasks will be to rectify an economy wrecked by the  former white-minority government, which left him with a mountain of debt,  according to the Sunday Times.
The newspaper said Sunday that De Klerk's government ran up debts of more  than 60 billion rands (16.8 billion dollars) in its final year of power.
Servicing the debt will cost the new government 23 billion rand (6.3  billion dollars) annually and will be the largest item on the next budget, to  be tabled in June, the newspaper said.
Mandela will also have to find the money for an ANC plan aimed at creating  jobs, building homes, encouraging investment and finding ways of encouraging  and rewarding productive enterprise in disadvantaged communities.
Mandela said last week that he was determined that the 39 billion rand (12  billion dollar) plan be implemented and that he would fight any opposition to  it in the government of national unity.
