President Boris Yeltsin on Monday ordered a major  overhaul of the government's economic reform program, easing export controls,  cutting taxes, and cracking down on inter-company debt and fraud.
The decrees signed by Yeltsin Monday will boost industrial output and  tighten state control of poorly or fraudulently managed enterprises, Alexander  Lifshits, head of a presidential panel of economic experts, said.
In two liberalising measures, Yeltsin ordered that export licences and  quotas, except those applying to certain "strategic materials" outlined in  existing legislation, including uranium, aluminium and diamonds, be cancelled  from July 1.
He also mandated government to cut business and value-added taxes by 10  percent to 20 percent and create a special tax regime for businesses which  have attracted foreign investment.
But he also authorised state control to be re-established over several  businesses considered to be part of "vital sectors" of the economy and said  mismanaged enterprises would also be placed under government rule.
In a bid to curb capital flight out of Russia, Yeltsin decreed that  entreprises would have the right to one bank account only and warned that any  business violating that order more than once would be placed under state  control.
Finally, he established an agency to issue and manage bonds to finance  inter-company debt and said that all businesses would be forced to convert  their hard currency earnings into rubles to cover their debts.
The measures were announced after production output had fallen by 24.7  percent in the first quarter of 1994, triggering concerns of impending mass  unemployment and economic collapse.
Yeltsin also decided to establish a consolidated fund to finance road  repairs and construction in Russia.
In Moscow, business leaders gave a cautious welcome to the package of  measures, saying they appeared to be "going in the right direction,"  particularly with the reduction in company taxes.
"We are cautiously optimistic as always. We would like to think that these  measures are going to be applied and that they will be there to last," a US  businessman with a Moscow oil company said.
In London, a spokesman for the Department of Trade and Industry cautioned  that the reforms were "only part of the picture."
Britain had also hoped to see an increase in import duties and a reduction  in import quotas.
Meanwhile, a spokesman for the Moscow Narodny Bank said that details of  the decrees were still shaky but: "Anything that is done that brings more  order to exports would be welcomed."
The bank, which deals in commodity swaps between Russian and the West, had  experienced "difficulties with exporters getting the supply product delivered  on the specified date."
However, he cautioned that the decrees would still have to be passed by  parliament to become effective.
