It will be remembered as the week that saw  the final demise of white rule in Africa and the inauguration of one of the  continents's most famous sons as South Africa's first black president.
"Let freedom reign, God bless Africa!" were the words of Nelson Rolihlahla  Mandela as he assumed office in Pretoria Tuesday in front of an array of world  leaders on the scale not seen since the funeral of assassinated U.S. President  John Kennedy more than 30 years earlier.
It will also be remembered as a week that witnessed former enemies  embracing as South Africa experienced unparalleled scenes of reconciliation,  with almost 350 years of white hegemony finally laid to rest.
Mandela led the way in promoting the new spirit of reconciliation,  praising his predecessor and new deputy president, Frederik de Klerk, as a man  who had "carved a place in history" with his bold reforms that led to the end  of apartheid rule.
"Never, never and never again shall it be that this beautiful land will  again experience the oppression of one by another," Mandela said after taking  the oath of office at the Union Buildings, the imposing seat of government  that for so long signalled white power.
The new president also took the salute from the white security force  generals who had only a few years ago been engaged in a bitter and often  bloody struggle against his African National Congress (ANC).
There was praise from every quarter for the 75-year-old Mandela, who has  travelled from rural poverty, through lawyer activist, guerrilla commander and  27 years in jail to be president of Africa's economic powerhouse.
Almost everybody, from crowned heads of state to millions of ordinary  citizens, seemed to glow in the warmth of the transition to democracy and the  relative peace with which it was accomplished.
In one of many scenes that would have been unthinkable only five years  ago, De Klerk and the chief of the defence force, General Georg Meiring, were  seen talking with Cuban leader Fidel Castro, long an enemy of apartheid South  Africa because of Cuba's military support of Angola.
Mandela's installation followed the ANC's sweeping victory in the April  26-29 election that saw the liberation movement garner 252 seats in the new  400-member national assembly.
The ANC will dominate the government of national unity that will hold  office until elections in 1999 under a final constitution to be negotiated in  the next five years.
But Mandela also moved to ensure that all the major parties in parliament  were represented in his cabinet, which was finalised Wednesday.
The powerful home affairs ministry was given to Mangosuthu Buthelezi,  leader of the Zulu-based Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), which has been engaged  in a bloody and enduring conflict with the ANC that has killed more than  14,000 people since 1990.
The IFP was granted two other portfolios in the 27-member cabinet, while  De Klerk's National Party, which came second to the ANC in the election, was  allocated six, inlcuding the the key finance post.
Mandela's government will face tough challenges in attempting to meet the  enormous expectations of the mainly poor black majority, reassuring the  largely skilled and wealthy whites and keeping a lid on political violence --  particularily the threat from white extremists opposed to the new order.
