The Treasury Department and Federal Reserve  have  neared agreement on plans to merge the Fed and three government agencies  to save money, said Fed Governor John LaWare Thursday.
The Treasury Department has estimated that the government could save 150  million to 200 million dollars annually and the banking industry about one  million if the Federal Reserve is merged with the Federal Deposit Insurance  Corporation, Office of Thrift Supervision and Comptroller of the Currency.
"There is substantially no difference between us and the Treasury on  this," said LaWare. "It's really just technicalities."
The Fed will continue to have oversight over 38 US banks under an accord  that the Treasury Department has seemed amenable to.
LaWare also seemed optimistic that the US Congress would lift the 1927  MacFadden Act, which requires banks that want to do business in several states  to set up wholly owned subsidiaries in each state in which they have branches.
The agreement, which has been approved by the Senate and House of  Representatives, could go into effect before the end of the year.
The single difference between the two versions is the treatment of foreign  banks, who have been asking for years to be given permission to operate here.
The senate would require them to create a US subsidiary while the House  would give them equal treatment with US banks.
US banks are currently lobbying for legislation that would require their  foreign competitors to set up subsidiaries here complete with boards of  directors -- putting them on the same footing as US banks who want to engage  in interstate trade.
The banks say that lifting the MacFadden Act would save 10 billion dollars  annually and make banking easier for the 60 million Americans living near  state borders.
LaWare also said he was opposed to a plan to strengthen regulations on  derivative products, financial instruments such as futures or options.
"Derivatives are not new, not mysterious and if managed properly like any  risk, not specifically dangerous," he said.
The Fed has not taken an official position on the issue.
