Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi visited Pope John  Paul II Saturday in the Rome hospital where he has spent three weeks  recovering from surgery, as a Vatican spokesman said the pope should be  released by mid-week.
Joaquin Navarro, the pope's spokesman, said Saturday the pontiff would  remain in hospital "three of four more days," in a brief statement from the  Vatican.
He said Berlusconi, who won a vote of confidence in the lower house Friday  in the last parliamentary hurdle to taking power after winning March  elections, offered "best wishes from myself and from my government" for the  pope's recovery.
Berlusconi said he and the pope talked for 45 minutes, discussing  "relations between our country and the Vatican," and "I promised my  cooperation."
The prime minister was accompanied by his chief of staff Gianni Letta.
Since Italy's biggest Christian-based party, the Italian Popular Party, is  in the opposition, Italian bishops have urged people to give a chance to the  new right-wing government.
The doctor in charge of the pope at Gemelli clinic, Carlo Bertolini,  confirmed Saturday the Vatican statement, saying the pope's recovery after  breaking a thigh bone in a fall was "progressing normally."
The pontiff, who turned 74 Wednesday, "can already walk longer distances  with crutches."
The spokesmen said the pope would go directly back to the Vatican after  leaving hospital, and not as initially planned for a further rest at the  pope's summer residence at Castelgandolfo outside Rome.
Two critical meetings are coming up -- a planned visit by US President  Bill Clinton on June 2 and a conference of Roman Catholic cardinals on June 13  and 14.
When these are over, the pope will go to Castelgandolfo to start swimming  -- the final phase of his physical therapy, doctors said.
This year was the second the pontiff had been forced to spend his birthday  in hospital. The first was in 1981 after Turkish extremist Ali Agca tried to  assassinate him in Saint Peter's Square.
