But the extent to which Arrigo Saachi relies on the world and European  player of the year also highlights Italy's principal problem. What if Baggio  does not perform or gets injured early on ?
The best back four in world football, marshalled by Milan's veteran  sweeper Franco Baresi, will make the Italians fiendishly difficult to beat.  But apart from Baggio it is difficult to see where they will find the creative  spark necessary to break down opponents.
If the World Cup is to go outside one of the four countries who have  monopolised the honours since England's solitary success on home soil in 1966,  Holland and Colombia look like the only sides with the quality to spring a  surprise.
The striking power of Faustino Asprilla and the midfield skills of Carlos  Valderrama provide the finesse in a Colombian side that has been playing  together for five years and inflicted a 5-0 humiliation on Argentina in Buenos  Aires in the qualifying competition.
But no-one can tell how they will react to the pressure of living up to  the expectations they built up with a two-year unbeaten run ended by Bolivia  in April.
The Dutch, in contrast, may benefit from a general lack of expectation.  Without Marco Van Basten their squad is not as strong on paper as the one that  flopped in Italy.
But they can still call on the revitalised Ruud Gullit, the young wingers  Marc Overmars and Brian Roy, and Van Basten's successor, Dennis Bergkamp, the  man whose goals ensured England would not be crossing the Atlantic.
Gullit has buried the hatchet with the coach Dick Advocaat and hopes are  high in Holland that, for once, the squad can stay free of the internal  squabbling that has proved their achilles heel too often in the past.
Who takes home the trophy is not of course the only thing at stake this  summer. There is also the huge question of whether any ordinary Americans will  actually care one way or the other.
Tickets for the Italy-Ireland match in New York in the opening round could  not be bought for love nor money by last Christmas, but there are still plenty  of places left for Belgium's clash with Saudi Arabia.
Horror statistics -- like December's poll that only 13 percent of  Americans knew what the World Cup was, far less that it was taking place in  their country -- have increased fears that the US public could react to the  whole business with a massive collective yawn, before flicking channels to a  'real' sport.
When FIFA decided to take a gamble on giving the finals to a country  without even its own professional league, it knew there would be a  comprehension barrier to overcome. They never thought that some of the natives  might actually turn nasty at a bunch of soccer missionaries trying to wean  them off their existing ball habits.
"Soccer is to sports what athlete's foot is to injuries," the columnist  Tom Weir told readers of USA Today.
"Hating soccer is more American than mom's apple pie, driving a pickup or  spending Saturday afternoon channel-surfing the remote control. Yes the World  Cup is coming but feel free to dodge and dismiss it, and feel good about  that."
Weir's vitriol though is probably as misplaced as the naive optimism of  FIFA that giving America the World Cup finals was all that was required to  conquer the game's final frontier.
In reality, with an estimated 16 million youngsters playing the game in  schools, colleges, and amateur leagues, it is a question of when, not if,  America takes to football.
A great World Cup that captures the public's imagination could get the new  professional league off to a flying start. A flop will condemn US soccer to a  permanent sports ghetto.
FIFA have gone out of their way to ensure the party is a success by  changing the rules to encourage attacking, entertaining play.
Three points for a win should cut down the number of stiflingly boring  first round matches that have dogged previous contests. Since 1990 the offside  rule has been amended to give attacking sides a better chance against  highly-organised defences.
Professional fouls will earn an automatic red card and refs have been told  to crack down on injury feigning and time-wasting.
It will also be the first World Cup played with the new pass back rule --  widely credited with cutting time-wasting and increasing goal chances.
None of these changes are revolutionary but they are all long overdue.  Even if the World Cup is snubbed by middle America, the attempt to win over a  sceptical audience will have done the game no harm.
