Baltic leaders called Friday for a European  Stability Pact under discussion here to be used to anchor Moscow, their  historic oppressor, into an increasingly integrated Europe.
Ministers from Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, still suspicious of Moscow  for historical reasons, but keen not to see it isolated, made the call on the  second day of a conference here to discuss the pact.
"We must not push Russia away. On the contrary we must draw it to us and  share with it our European values, to allow us all to live in peace in  Europe," said Lithuanian Justice Minister Egils Levitz.
Such an international pact "would help Russia adapt to the standards of  democratic life, and will above all contribute to the development of democracy  within Russia," he said.
He added that Moscow should "give up its imperialist ambitions," adding  that political movements still existed in Moscow with imperialist designs.
Earlier 53 delegations meeting at UNESCO headquarters here agreed to set  up two regional roundtables, one on the problems of Russian minorities in the  Baltic states, the other on Hungarian minorities in Slovakia and Romania.
Accords reached at the roundtables will be enshrined in a Stability Pact  which could be signed early in 1995 and registered with the Conference on  Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).
The three Baltic states feel under particular threat, even though they  were among the first to declare independence from the Soviet Union, because  they still have significant Russophone communities living on their territory.
Levitz and Estonian Foreign Minister Juri Luik welcomed Russia's decision  this week to join the NATO Partnership for Peace plan, which Luik said was  "very positive."
Lithuanian Foreign Minister Povilas Gylys echoed the call for Russian  integration in Europe. "Large isolated countries focus in on their own affairs  and don't join the process of developing security and cooperation," he said.
He said the international community must "show this country that there  exists the prospect of becoming a member of the European family."
Earlier Russia reacted ambiguously to the conference here, which could be  viewed as an attempt to extend European Union influence in areas once ruled by  the former Soviet Union.
Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, addressing fellow ministers,  welcomed the planned pact, but warned it might conflict with the CSCE.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe denied at a press conference that the  stability conference was duplicating existing organisations, such as the CSCE.
The stability conference was "filling a vacuum" and was "not a CSCE  mark-2, nor another Council of Europe, nor a Western European Union," Juppe  said.
The two-day meeting, which opened Thursday, was the brainchild of French  Prime Minister Edouard Balladur.
Meanwhile Friday, officials in Stockholm announced the first summit of  Scandinavian and Baltic countries is to be held on June 2-3 at Visby on the  Swedish Baltic island of Gotland.
Countries represented will be Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Latvia,  Lithuania and Estonia. They will discuss Baltic security and political  developments in central and eastern Europe.
