Armed riot police stopped some  30,000 protesters from storming a US cultural center and an office of South  Korea's ruling party Sunday in the biggest anti-US demonstration here this  year by radical students.
"Oust the Yankees," yelled the demonstrators, demanding that Washington  stop pressuring North Korea to give up its nuclear program.
The anti-US demonstration followed a street rally outside the government  building of this southern provincial capital, where a civilian uprising  against military rule left more than 200 dead and hundreds wounded in 1980.
The protesters waived hundreds of red flags and scuffled with thousands of  riot police armed with tear gas and clubs and stationed around the US center.
"Washington is liable for the tense inter-Korean standoff," a radical  leader shouted, urging students to launch a nationwide anti-war and anti-US  campaign.
Anti-US protests by South Korean radicals, fuelled by the continuing  standoff over North Korea's suspected nuclear program, have made a particular  target of US cultural centers.
Radicals here accuse the United States of seeking confrontation with North  Korea in an attempt to maximize its influence over the Korean peninsula, which  was divided in 1945 at the end of World War II.
They also slammed South Korea's civilian government for serving US  military interests and demanded the withdrawal of the 36,000 US troops  stationed here since the 1950-53 Korean war.
Government officials in Seoul warned that radical leaders would be  arrested on charges of siding with the North's Stalinist regime, isolated  internationally because of its refusal to allow full outside inspection of its  nuclear facilities.
Later in the day, a separate group of 5,000 protesters gathered near the  city's ruling party office and hurled rocks in running battles with riot  police.
The protesters urged the arrest of two former South Korean presidents,  Chun Doo-Hwan and Roh Tae-Woo, for ordering the military to suppress the  bloody 1980 uprising there.
The two former leaders were generals leading a regime controlled by the  military in 1980. Chun seized power the following year, and Roh succeeded him  in 1988.
Police guarding the ruling party office fired tear gas, but there were no  immediate reports of injuries or arrests. Some 15,000 riot police have been  mobilized in Kwangju.
The protests in Kwangju were sponsored by the Korea Federation of Students  Councils, an outlawed grouping of radical students, which declared a campaign  on Saturday to oust President Kim Young-Sam.
Kim, a former opposition leader, entered office in February 1993 on a  promise to end the authoritarian legacy of his predecessors. His campaign last  year won widespread public support, but radicals claimed it petered out this  year.
