Japanese Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata, who heads the  country's first minority government in 39 years, took to the rain-drenched  streets of Tokyo Sunday to seek public support for his policies.
"We face a lot of internal and external problems which need urgent  settlement," Hata told a crowd in front of Tokyo's Shinjuku railway station.
Hata, who came to power on April 28 after his predecessor Morihiro  Hosokawa resigned over a financial scandal, said his minority government  needed public support in order to survive offensives by opposition parties.
"It's certain my fragile administration will immediately collapse if the  opposition camp submits a no-confidence motion" against the cabinet in  parliament, he said.
The main opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and the second largest  opposition group, the Social Democratic Party (SDP), have indicated they may  table a no-confidence motion against the Hata cabinet, possibly in June.
Hata stressed he was ready to compromise with the opposition over tax and  other policies, in order to solve a parliamentary deadlock.
"I will do my best for opposition parties, including the LDP and SDP," the  prime minister said.
Hata hopes to complete his sweeping tax reforms and market-opening  measures, designed to boost both domestic sales and imports, by the end of  June.
Ruling party politicians have indicated that a rise in the current  three-percent consumption tax on all goods and services might be inevitable  under the planned tax reforms, which include income and residence tax cuts.
Hata is to meet LDP president Yohei Kono and SDP chairman Tomiichi Muraya  on Monday, to seek their cooperation in managing parliamentary business.
The prime minister is expected to ask the two major opposition parties to  cooperate in passing the government's fiscal 1994 budget through parliament as  soon as possbile, observers said.
The government's 50-day provisional budget for fiscal 1994 expires on May  20.
Hata's power base weakened sharply when the SDP withdrew from the ruling  coalition just before he formed his cabinet.
Meanwhile Jiji Press news agency said Sunday that popular support for the  Hata cabinet stood at 40.9 percent earlier this month, 5.3 points lower than  public support given to Hosokawa shortly after he came to power last August.
The first Jiji poll on the Hata cabinet was taken across Japan on May  7-10, and canvasssed 1,400 eligible voters, aged 20 or above, before justice  minister Shigeto Nagano resigned over his controversial remarks on Japan's  past military action.
Nagano came under fire at home and abroad, saying that the 1937 Nanjing  massacre in China by Japanese troops was a fabrication and that Japan did not  wage a war of aggression during World War II.
