Paris and London pursued a flurry of diplomatic  activity Saturday to defuse a major row between the French government and  British carriers over landing rights at the capital's Orly airport.
Both countries' transport ministers were in regular contact by telephone  Friday and Saturday in search of a solution to the "sky wars" standoff sparked  after Paris refused to allow three carriers headed by British Airways (BA) to  start a service from London to Orly from next Monday, according to a spokesman  in London.
BA threatened Friday to sue the French government if it stopped the  company's  flights, while French aviation authorities were reported ready to  reject the British carriers' flight plans.
Aides of French Transport Minister Bernard Bresson refused Saturday to  give details of the state of negotiations, while a spokesman for his British  counterpart John McGregor would only confirm that the talks between the two  men were continuing.
Bosson earlier described the affair as a "storm in a teacup" and predicted  that "everything will be back in order" by Monday.
BA plus two other airlines -- TAT and Air UK -- are insisting with British  government backing that they are entitled to start flights to Orly Monday in  line with a European Commission ruling last month.
But French authorities have been barring British flights to the airport in  defiance of the decision that ordered France to open three domestic routes --  Orly-London, Orly-Toulouse and Orly-Marseilles -- to competition.
Seven flights out of London are still scheduled to land at Orly Monday,  but any crews flyinbg without accepted flight plans would violate  international air traffic regulations and place passengers at risk.
A BA spokesman said earlier that the company would consider seeking  compensation if not allowed to land Monday but did not specify whether the  carrier would take immediate action.
Bosson has cited congestion at Orly, environmental considerations and  increased access to London's Heathrow airport for French carriers as issues  which need to be resolved before the route is opened.
It is understood that France offered a compromise by suggesting it was  prepared to open Orly to British carriers at the end of June.
British Airways has said: "We have the rights and the slots, and we will  be starting our first London-to-Orly flights on Monday."
Air UK has also stated that it would be "going ahead on Monday."
A fourth UK airline -- British Midland -- has delayed the start of its  four-flights-a-day Heathrow-Orly service until the row is resolved.
