An Iranian religious organisation urged all Moslems  making the pilgrimage in Mecca to defy a Saudi ban and take part in an anti-US  rally planned by Iranians pilgrims, the official news agency IRNA said Sunday.
"We call on all pilgrims, especially politically-aware Iranians, to take  part in the demonstration as in previous years to foil the plots of the  enemies of Islam," the Islamic Propagation Organisation said, quoted by IRNA.
The Mecca gathering is the "best opportunity and Mecca the best place for  Moslems to express their hatred of the infidels, notably the United States and  Israel," it added.
The head of the Iranian pilgrimage delegation, Mohammad Mohammadi  Reyshahri, told a group of pilgrims Saturday that holding the rally was a  "religious must" and urged everyone to participate on Tuesday.
The anti-US and anti-Israel demonstrations are "aimed at fostering Islamic  unity and enlightening the ummah (Moslems) about the dangers from  non-believers," he said.
Reyshahri however urged the pilgrims to be "disciplined and peaceful" to  avoid any "unseemly incidents."
Saudi authorities warned last week they would not allow Iranian pilgrims  to carry out their planned demonstration.
IRNA said Saturday the Saudi riot police had taken up positions around the  Iranian pilgrims camps in Mecca to prevent the rally from being held.
Police were deployed on both sides of the entrance to the camp, while  about 10 police cars and armoured vehicles were stationed in the streets  opposite, the agency said.
It also charged that two cameras, placed on the roofs of two tall  buildings across the street, were filming all movements to and from the camp  around the clock.
Similar demonstrations have triggered clashes with Saudi police in  previous years, the most violent being in 1987, when 400 pilgrims, including  275 Iranians, were killed. Diplomatic ties between the two countries were  broken off for three years afterwards.
The annual Moslem pilgrimage this year is to start on May 19 in Mecca, the  birth place of the prophet Mohammad and Islam's holiest shrine.
