US officials are working to end an interagency  dispute over drug policy that led to the cutoff of an intelligence sharing  program with Colombia and Peru, a State Department spokeman said Tuesday.
"There is now an interagency discussion about the policy itself," said  spokesman Mike McCurry when asked whether the Defense Department had followed  policy when it suspended the program on May 1.
"To my knowledge there is not a policy that says that there is a cut-off  of data going to these countries, but there was a cutoff," he said.
The Defense Department has expressed concern that the two South American  countries might be using the data from US radar and surveillance flights to  shoot down planes suspected of drug trafficking, a violation of international  law.
The State Department, according to a report Sunday in the Washington Post,   favors a policy of "don't ask, don't tell" -- providing tracking data, but  publicly expressing disapproval of attacks in flight.
A State Department official quoted by the Post said that the Defense  Department halted the program unilaterally without even telling the State  Department.
McCurry said the administration would also review the intelligence sharing  program itself.
"We want to pursue an active narcotics interdiction program and that  involves working in many cases with governments in the region," said McCurry.
"But that program must be consistent with the president's overall  anti-drug strategy, US criminal law and international law," he added.
On May 1, the US Southern Command suspended operation of US ground-based  radars in Peru and Colombia and stopped allowing their nationals on US  surveillance flights from Panama, the Post report said.
After the program was suspended, Peru retaliated by banning US  surveillance craft from its airspace while Colombia threatened to expel the US  radars from its territory.
Originally the tracking information was supposed to be used with other  information to locate and destroy drug labs on the ground but last year  Peruvian aircraft shot down a suspected drug plane and Colombia also announced  its intention to shoot down suspected drug flights.
