Truce talks aimed at brokering a ceasefire in  Bosnia-Hercegovina due to open here on Thursday are at risk before they even  begin, with Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic threatening to stay away.
The talks, called by UN special envoy Yasushi Akashi, aim to bring  together the political and military leaders of the warring parties, along with  all the major international mediators in the Balkan conflict.
But speaking in Sarajevo the Bosnian leader said he would only agree to go  if Bosnian Serb forces withdrew from a three-kilometre (two-mile) heavy  weapons exclusion zone around the eastern enclave of Gorazde.
"We cannot go to Geneva so long as this condition is not satisfied. That  is what I am proposing," he said, in an address Tuesday to the Bosnian  parliament on the state of political and military negotiations.
"They have not yet withdrawn and our participation is uncertain," he said,  adding: "If they withdraw at the last minute, we will go to discuss a  cessation of hostilities." Izetbegovic had warned on Monday that he was not  sure to travel to Geneva in the present circumstances.
According to UN officials, some 150 armed Serbs remain within the  exclusion zone, in violation of a UN resolution and a North Atlantic Treaty  Organization ultimatum threatening air strikes.
The aim of the new conference, scheduled for Thursday and Friday, is  solely to negotiate a ceasefire on the ground in Bosnia -- the larger  political questions will for the moment be left to one side.
The United Nations said it had not yet received replies sent by Akashi to  the various leaders. Akashi will be accompanied at the talks by UN Protection  Force generals Bertrand de Lapresle and Sir Michael Rose.
In Zagreb UN spokesman Michael Williams said Akashi expected "all the  parties" to the war in Bosnia to take part in peace talks called by the United  Nations in Geneva.
"We expect participation by all the parties in the talks. We want these  talks to succeed, we want them to meet their goal of leading to a complete  cessarion of hostilities in Bosnia-Hercegovina," he added.
The talks are also due to be attented by European Union mediator Lord Owen,  Thorvald Stoltenberg for the United Nations, as well as US special envoy  Charles Redman and Russia's Vitaly Churkin.
Bosnian Serb leaders confirmed Tuesday that they will be sending a  delegation to Geneva.
"We have had a consultative meeting (with Churkin) and have exchanged  views before the Geneva meeting," said Momcilo Krajisnik, speaker of the  self-styled Bosnian Serb parliament, cited by the Tanjug news agency.
Bosnian Croat attendance at the talks has not been confirmed.
Churkin spent Tuesday in Belgrade, where he held talks with Serbian  President Slobodan Milosevic, ahead of scheduled talks with Bosnian Serb  leaders. Churkin may travel to Sarajevo Wednesday, sources said.
Speaking after the talks, Churkin said Milosevic had assured him of his  support for a ceasefire. "Milosevic assured me that Serbia strongly supported  the idea of an end to the fighting in Bosnia," Churkin said.
Talks between the warring factions on broader issues were held last week  at Talloires, in the French Alps near from Geneva, under the auspices of the  so-called "contact group" of mediators. The negotiations are due to resume  again next week.
Meanwhile a Geneva conference observer, Norman Anderson, warned that  Serbian pressure against the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia had  considerably increased in recent months, with a stepping up of military  activity near the Macedonian border.
Anderson told a press conference in Vienna that Serbian forces had taken  several Macedonian citizens prisoner.
