Fighters for notorious Burmese drug warlord Khun  Sa are locked in major battle with Rangoon soldiers in eastern Burma's Shan  State, sources and a news report said Saturday.
The fighting raging near Tachilek, across from Mae Sai in Thailand's  northern Chiang Rai provence, is the heaviest in 40 years and has stranded  tourists and frightened local residents, the Bangkok Post reported.
A source near the border reached by telephone from Bangkok estimated at  least 120 government troops and 50 members of Khun Sa's Muang Tai Army (MTA)  had been killed, and hundreds of others wounded, since the fighting began May  11.
Both sides began preparing for the battle May 6, bringing in  reinforcements and supplies, the source told AFP, speaking anonymously.
The conflict intensified May 13 when MTA forces attacked Jod town, 30  kilometers (19 miles) from the border. Jod fell to Khun Sa's fighters May 15  in fierce fighting, the source said.
Fighting was continuing 25 kilometers (14 miles) north of Jod at Baan na  Kongmun, the source said.
The Thai military had not sealed off the border because the fighting was  still 50 kilometers (30 miles) away, he added.
The Post said MTA troops launched the offensive to retake areas captured  by government troops four months earlier.
An aide to Khun Sa, Lieutenant Colonel Kernsai Jaiyen, told the Post that  the MTA had retaken 13 areas on the west bank of the Salweek River and new  fighting was raging at Ban Kong Mon, four hours' walking distance from  Tachilek.
The officer also claimed rebel fighters had seized railways and an airport  and had destroyed three bridges, the English-language daily said.
A Thai immigration official in Mae Sai told the Post that 5,000 to 7,000  tourists cross into Shan State each day. He estimated some 90 people, most of  them Thais, and a few foreign tourists traveling by car, had been stranded by  the fighting.
Shan State is in the heart of the so-called Golden Triangle, the area  where Burma, Thailand and Laos meet. Most of the world's heroin comes from the  Burmese side, and Thailand is a major transit route for the drug to the West.
