The United States is looking at different  recipes for cutting down China's most-favored-nation (MFN) status in protest  of Beijing's human rights record, a senior US official said here.
Rather than dropping China from the list of nations which benefit from  reduced trade tariffs, a "whole range of alternatives" is possible, the  official said late Tuesday.
US President Bill Clinton, meeting an election pledge, must decide by June  4  whether China has made "significant overall progress" in human rights to  warrant renewal of its MFN status.
"It's not all or nothing," said the official, on  a visit here with US  Secretary of State Warren Christopher.
"The practicality of this range of alternatives is something we must  assess," he said, refusing to elaborate.
The American press has recently indicated that Chinese state-manufactured  goods and private products would come under different sanctions. Removing the  benefits from public sector goods would do China's economy considerable harm.
Describing the human rights situaton in China, the official said there was   "some important progress."
"There's been some negative developments that need to be put into the  mix," he added.
The Chinese government has recently released some opposition members, but  has also increased repressive measures against its critics.
Chinese exports to the United States jumped 23 percent to 31.4 billion  dollars last year, while imports rose by 17.8 percent, giving China a surplus  of 22.8 billion dollars. Should MFN be withdrawn, the bulk of its exports to  the United States, such as textiles and the toy sector, would be hit.
American businessmen in Beijing fear that a tit-for-tat conflict would  effectively block them from one of the world's fastest growing economies.
The renewal of China's MFN heavily affects large contracts between the  Chinese government and American companies. One of its biggest deals is between  the US-based Boeing airplane manufacturers and China's national airline.
