Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi on Friday  cleared the last parliamentary hurdle to taking power when the lower house  passed a vote of confidence in his government.
Irena Pivetti, speaker of the lower house, announced 366 votes in favour  of Berlusconi's conservative government, compared to 245 against.
The result of the vote was a formality following the formation of a  parliamentary coalition of Berlusconi's Forza Italy, the federalist Northern  League and the neo-fascist National Alliance, the three parties which banded  together to win the March 27-28 general elections.
A total of 611 deputies attended Friday's vote. No one abstained.  Berlusconi needed at least 306 votes to secure the confidence motion.
The senate, Italy's upper house, approved a confidence motion in  Berlusconi's administration by a one-vote margin Wednesday.
"As of Saturday the government will work at full throttle," a jubilant  Berlusconi said after the vote in the Chamber of Deputies.
Berlusconi appeared before deputies during a two-day debate on his  administration pledging to steer his neo-fascist- and federalist-backed  government towards the political centre.
Following the vote Berlusconi now enters a critical 100-day trial period  during which he has pledged to launch a radical free-market economic reform  package to create one million new jobs by the end of 1996 and cut government  spending.
Investors have adopted a wait-and-see attitude, warning that the  razor-thin Senate win showed that government projects could easily run into  Senate opposition and may need drawn-out negotiations to pass through.
Berlusconi could get around this by resorting to government decrees to  impose economic changes in line with a policy adopted by previous governments,  analysts said.
He also praised neo-fascist leader Gianfranco Fini, his ally, for  clarifying the National Alliance's (NA) position and rejecting "unfounded  accusations" concerning the party's political stance.
Fini had told parliament that his party had no links to "historical  fascism."
"Nobody can deny that the NA fully values freedom, pluralism,  anti-totalitarianism as much as we oppose racism and anti-Semitism," Fini told  legislators before the vote.
Italy's 53rd government includes more than 15 fascist members, including  five ministers.
Fini said his movement had "nothing to do with historical fascism."
Anti-fascism was "for some time key in introducing democracy" after World  War II, he said. "But not all anti-fascists were anti-totalitarian," he added,  referring to Italy's old communist party which was for years modelled on the  Stalinist Soviet Union's single party.
Fini said the Alliance's legitimacy was based on the ballots of five and a  half million voters in the March election.
The participation of five Alliance ministers and more than 10 neo-fascist  junior ministers in Berlusconi's government has drawn sharp criticism from  Italy's European Union allies and the European parliament.
