The Roman Catholic Church was partly responsible  for centuries of persecution of the Jews leading to the Holocaust, the Vatican  acknowledged for the first time in a draft document released on Wednesday.
"A terrible mixture of religious, social, economical, political and racial  hostility created the historical basis for the European Jews being driven on  their deadly way toward the Shoah (Holocaust)," it said.
The "Church as a whole offered no effective resistance to the Nazi  persecution and extermination," it said in a three-part document yet to be  ratified by Pope John Paul II.
It has been hailed by Rabbi David Rosen, head of the committee charged  with overseeing relations between Judaism and the Roman Catholic Church, as  "an exceptional and historic document."
"In the text the Church undergoes a deep examination of its conscience and  repents," Rosen told AFP.
The document was presented to a joint Jewish-Catholic committee by  Cardinal Edward Cassidy, president of the papal committee for Christian unity,  meeting for the first time in Jersualem.
It follows after Israel and the Vatican established diplomatic links in  December for the first time since the creation of the Jewish State in 1948.
A draft clause proposed by the German and Polish churches says that the  Church "confesses that she bears co-responsibility for the Shoah and that she  has burdened herself with guilt."
The draft document "Anti-Semitism, Shoah and Church" says that the  "tradition of theological and church anti-Judaism was an important element on  the way towards the Shoah.
"There was a preceding contribution of the Church and Christianity to a  climate which was indifferent and sometimes hostile to the Jewish people and  Judaism and which paved the way for modern anti-Semitism."
And it says Christians and bishops "were so prejudiced that they did not  have the neccesary clear-sightedness in order to recognize the evil of  anti-Semitic persecution by National Socialism."
Although it highlights cases of the "exemplary behaviour" of some  individuals and groups who risked their lives to help the Jewish people, the  paper adds that during the Nazi era "we were (..) a church community who kept  on living their life in turning their back too often on the fate" of the Jews.
This led, it says, to "the manifold guilt of many Christians and in the  Church" such as "the guilt of silence and of the failure to render aid as well  as the guilt of not having been there where protest, assistance and protection  were necessary and possible."
Six million Jews died in the genocide carried out by the National Socialist  Party headed by German leader Adolf Hitler, many in concentration camps  erected during World War II.
Rosen said: "It is the first time that a Christian institution recognises  its responsibility in the Holocaust.
"In the past the Church has said it was against anti-Semitism (..) but  this time it has gone much further in declaring its responsibility for the  dehumanisation which reached its climax with the Shoah."
Cassidy told journalists: "We have reached the stage where we cannot only  treat the problems of the past (..), but we believe that the best way to build  a relationship is to work together."
