No longer shunned by the world, South Africa  has been welcomed back into an array of international organisations since last  month's all-race elections ended centuries of white-minority rule.
The latest confirmation that South Africa was no longer the pariah of the  world came Tuesday, when Commonwealth Secretary-General Emeka Anyaoku  announced that the country would become the association's 51st member on June  1 after a 33-year absence.
"The return of a non-racial democratic South Africa, working alongside the  other 50 members of the Commonwealth, is a boost for the association, not  least in the task of making the world safer for diversity," Anyaoku told a  press conference at Commonwealth headquarters in London.
The return, he said, followed the "end of apartheid and the dawn of  freedom in South Africa."
South Africa dropped out of the Commonwealth by default in 1961, the year  it ended its constitutional monarchy headed by Britain's Queen Elizabeth II,  and became a republic.
According to Commonwealth rules it would have had to reapply for admission  as a republic, but chose not to renew its membership in the face of increasing  opposition to the ruling government's apartheid policies.
President Nelson Mandela immediately welcomed the move, saying he was  "delighted."
Mandela said the step was "a tribute to the momentous changes that have  taken place in our country as well as a challenge for South Africa to play its  part in the worldwide quest for a peaceful, harmonious and caring world."
One of the first organisations to beckon Mandela's fledgling government  was the Organisation of African Unity (OAU), which formally accepted South  Africa as a member on May 23.
The country's membership is expected to be officially approved at the  start of the OAU heads of state summit meeting in Tunis on June 13, which will  be attended by Mandela, taking his first overseas trip as president.
South Africa was never a member of the OAU, which was formed in Addis  Ababa on 26 May 1963 by 30 independent African states. It now consists of 53  members, including South Africa.
On Monday, South Africa was welcomed as the 109th member of the Non-Aligned  Movement (NAM).
NAM officials raised the new South African flag after deciding to accept  its application. The country was due to be officially accepted Tuesday when  foreign ministers open a conference.
South Africa rejoined the International Labour Organisation on Friday, and  closer to home, the 10-member Southern African Development Community (SADC)  announced Wednesday that it would invite South Africa to join the economic  grouping.
SADC executive secretary Kaire Mbuende said in Gabarone that he would  deliver a letter to Mandela this week inviting South Africa to apply for  membership.
SADC, comprising Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia,  Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe, was formed as a "co-operation  conference" 13 years ago in a bid to counter the economic influence of South  Africa's former apartheid regime in the southern Africa region.
South Africa also hoped to retake its seat in the UN General Assembly by  the end of June, Vice-President Thabo Mbeki said last week.
The United Nations stripped South Africa of its powers in 1974 because of  the country's apartheid policies.
