The Chinese government is moving to restore order  in the country's chaotic mining sector, plagued by a series of horrific  accidents, illegal operators and an almost total lack of regulatory control.
According to the Guangming Daily, the main problem facing the central  authorities is the surge in the number of small township coal mines which  number about 120,000 and account for more than 40 percent of total coal  output.
Nearly one-third do not have operating licenses and 70 percent fail to  meet basic safety standards, the newspaper said. A recent government circular  calls for the elimination of all unlicensed mines as well as an end to the  poaching of resources from state-run mines.
There are 11,200 private or small collective mines -- most unlicensed --  operating within the 103 key state mines, the Economic Daily said.
Many of these encroach on the reserves of the state firms, poaching an  estimated 568 million tonnes annually at an economic loss to the government of  more than 21 million yuan (2.4 million dollars).
Using substandard mining techniques and unwilling to invest in new  equipment, operators of the private and collective mines often cut costs by  ignoring safety regulations, thus posing a serious threat to workers.
In the first three months of this year alone, 724 miners died in  accidents, compared with 1,058 for the whole of 1993.
A related report in the People's Daily showed wastage is also a serious  problem. Most owners of small mines lack expertise and for each tonne of coal  ore mined, only 10 percent is utilised, compare with 50 percent in state mines.
Attempts by the central government to exert greater control over the coal  sector have been frustrated by a lack of official cooperation at local level.
Coal mining is often the quickest and easist way for farmers to earn a  decent wage and small mines provide an important source of local revenue, so  local governments often turn a blind eye to unlicensed or unsafe operators.
In what amounts to a tacit recognition by the authorities that small mines  are here to stay, the government is to invest unspecified sums over the next  three years to help township and other mines upgrade safety standards.
Professional training for directors and technicians will also be provided.
