Indian troops with shoot-on-sight orders  patrolled tense areas Sunday in the northeastern state of Assam after tribal  militants massacred nearly 50 Moslem settlers, according to eyewitness reports.
State government officials in Guwahati, Assam's main city, said the  situation in the violence-torn district of Kokrajhar was "tense but under  control" with no new bloodshed following Friday night's killings.
"There has been no escalation (in violence) but tension continues to  prevail," a government spokesman said here citing reports reaching from  Kokrajhar, 250 kilometres (150 miles) northwest of Guwahati.
Ten truckloads of army troops were deployed in Kokrajhar and the  surrounding countryside in addition to hundreds of police and paramilitary  troops to stop the violence and restore order.
Security forces toured the district Sunday in a deterrent show of  strength, officials said. A hunt was also underway for the killers.
Bodo tribal militants armed with self-loading rifles and machetes went on  a bloody rampage in the countryside surrounding Kokrajhar on Friday night,  attacking Moslem settlers and setting their homes and property on fire.
Twenty-two people -- 11 women, six children and five men -- were killed  according to official count, but witnesses in Kokrajhar and government sources  here speaking on condition of anonymity put the death toll at nearly 50.
More than 100 people were injured, 7,000 people left homeless and four  villages burned to the ground, they said.
The victims were identified Sunday as Bengali-speaking Moslems, either  locals or of Bangladeshi stock, who had settled in Bodo lands in Kokrajhar to  the resentment of tribespeople.
The tribal-dominated district is known as an ethnic powderkeg with  periodic outbreaks of violence ensuing from tensions between Bodos and  settlers and Bodos and native Assamese.
Twenty settlers were killed in Bodo attacks in January and 50 died in a  bout of ethnic violence the preceding October.
Homeless survivors were being sheltered in temporary relief camps Sunday  in Kokrajhar, where Assam Chief Minister Hiteswar Saikia was headed for a spot  assessment of the situation.
Saikia said here that the occupation of tribal lands had created a sense  of insecurity and deprivation and sparked ethnic tensions.
"This is a common phenomenon in the entire northeast now," said Saikia,  who heads a government controlled by India's ruling Congress (I) party.
Tribals are the original inhabitants of the subcontinent who live outside  the region's caste system and are fiercely proud and protective of their  martial tradition and culture.
Geographical isolation and a backward economy have heightened the tensions.
Bodo militants have been fighting since 1989 for the division of oil- and  mineral-rich Assam, a state of 22 million people, into two, with one-half on  the northern bank of the Brahmaputra river reserved for the tribespeople.
Hundreds have died in the rebellion which New Delhi has been trying to end  through offers of autonomy.
