British Prime Minister John Major on Saturday  renewed a controversial attack on beggars, defending his description of them  as "offensive" and repeating that they should be dealt with firmly by police.
"I stand by what I said," the premier insisted the day after calling for  tough action against beggers in a west country newspaper, a move which  provoked howls of outrage from the opposition Labour Party and charity groups.
"I set out yesterday what I think many millions of people in this country  feel. There is no need for begging. There is no need for aggressive begging,"  said Major, who is campaigning for next month's European elections.
"We have a social security safety net in this country," he said, adding:  "It is unnecessary and it is offensive."
Major's comments Friday sparked a retort by Labour housing spokesman John  Battle accusing Major's government of shirking its responsibilities to the  homeless.
He said it was a favourite tactic to scapegoat people living on the  streets as unwelcome beggars. "Many young people are forced to beg on the  streets. John Major's government must bear some responsibility for this," he  said.
Shelter, a charity for the homeless, said in a statement: "He (Major)  should address the underlying causes of homelessness, the lack of low cost  homes, and the lack of benefits for young people which forces them on to the  streets."
But Major was unrepentent Saturday. "The fact is it is illegal and it  should not be permitted," he said, adding that "arresting beggars is a matter  for people who enforce the law."
Despite the political storm caused by his comments Conservatives believe  Major has struck a populist chord that would be welcomed in cities where  vagrancy and aggressive begging posed a threat to tourism and trade.
All the major political parties are currently well into their campaigning  for elections to the European parliament next month. Major's Conservative  Party is widely predicted to do badly in the ballots.
In another forthright interview Saturday, in the Liverpool Echo newspaper  in northeastern England, Major commented on the case of James Bulger, the  two-year-old whose killing there last year made headlines worldwide.
Lawyers for the two boys convicted of the murder have taken the case to the  European Court of Human Rights. Major said Saturday his government strongly  opposed the appeal action.
Urging strong discipline for children, he said: "Children need a line to  be drawn in the sand. They need to know what they may do and what they may not  do," he said. "They need stern disapproval when they cross that line.
"To be too kind is not good for the children themselves," he said.
