Bill Koch wasn't giving any hints  Friday about who will be the first female skipper in the the America's Cup as  the final day of tryouts for his all-woman crew was held.
Koch and his lieutenants will spend the next two weeks sorting through  their impressions of the roughly 50 women who were given a turn aboard the  America's Cup yacht Kanza to see if they had the skill to defend the world's  most coveted yachting trophy.
"That is going to be determined over a long time period," Koch said. "It  will be done over about a six-month period."
The 22 to 25 women who will make up the America3 roster will be announced  around mid-June.
America3 had lined up names and phone numbers of female bodybuilders and  powerlifters from around the United States who were eager to try out for  grinder positions, but they have yet to be called.
Koch said muscle, though desirable, would not be the major factor in  selecting crew positions because of the efficiency of the winching gear on the  boats.
During the three rounds of tryouts, women with past experience as racing  skippers have been selected to serve in the afterguard positions -- skipper,  tatician and navigator.
Those auditioning have included Olympic medal winners Alison Jolly and  J.J. Isler, Whitbread skipper Dawn Riley and Betsy Alison, a four-time winner  of the Rolex Yachtswoman of the year award.
Koch said the ability to mesh with a team would be just as important in  selecting a skipper as sailing experience.
"Our afterguard selections will probably be quite surprising," he said.  "We'll have a few well-known sailors and a few who are not," he said.
Several of the would-be skippers have sailed small boats such as the  Olympic classes, but Koch is among those who believe the lightweight America's  Cup class yacht is so agile that the jump in size will not be difficult.
A big boat is a big boat, however, and handling an America's Cup yacht  with 16 crew members is a change.
"It's like driving a big, big truck," said catamaran sailor Annie Nelson,  who steered Kanza for four days this week. "You look up at the mainsail and  say, 'My God, this thing is huge.'"
