The gulags of Magadan, where former  political prisoner and Nobel literature laureate Alexander Solzhenitsyn set  foot on Russian soil for the first time in 20 years this week, have given way  to a new breed of prison.
Labour camp Number Four is built on a road constructed 50 years ago by  "zeks" (prisoners) on the site of an old gulag -- prison-cum-concentration  camp -- dating from the era of Russian dictator Josef Stalin.
But these days political spite has been replaced by hard economic problems  in this Siberian outpost in the extreme east of Russia.
The camp, 45 kilometres (28 miles) outside Magadan, has 580 prisoners --  the word "zek" is no longer used.
"They are repeat offenders," serving between three and 16 years, camp  director Anatoli Buryakov said.
The name "labour camp" is a misnomer. Like the whole region, the camp has  woefully little work to occupy the prisoners.
"We have fewer and fewer orders, and many of the prisoners remain idle,"  Buryakov lamented.
In the Stalinist era from 1930 to 1950 the zeks put in place the  infrastructure of Siberia and turned it into a going concern.
The gulag was a veritable economic institution, managing a temporary  workforce of several million people providing free labour.
Experts reckon that at the height of the Stalinist repression in 1947-48,  around 15 million people were in gulags, out of a total population of 300  million.
Prisoners are longer assigned to the forests or the gold and uranium mines  where so many zeks worked themselves to death.
"The mainstay of labour camp work is in the building industry and in  furniture manufacture," explained Lieutenant-Colonel Gennadi Volkov, deputy  director of the district's three camps with their 1,500 inmates.
This part of Siberia, where the worst of the Stalinist camps were built,  remains synonymous with the gulag system, but according to Buryakov, it now  boasts the best labour camps in the country.
Capricious and vindictive prison regimes are a thing of the past, he said.  "Nowadays you have to find ways of managing the prison population and  preparing them for their return to society during a time of extreme economic  hardship.
"Our two priorities are food, which we have managed to secure, and energy,  which is at a low ebb."
He said he was worried about next winter, when the temperature will drop  to 40 degrees Celsius below zero.
Financial aid from Moscow is not enough, and the warders have still not  been paid for April.
Revenue from the camp's output is falling, and as in any prison system,  life is far from rosy.
Prisoners may leave their cell blocks at will to walk around the camp,  where loudspeakers blare out pop music all day long.
Sacha, serving 10 years for smuggling, said: "We eat normally, living  conditions are OK, but nothing here is really good. And we get a lot of  promiscuity here."
In cell block five, in a large dormitory without partitions, 90 metal bunk  beds are laid out at one metre intervals.
At the foot of each is a jumble of saucepans and clothes. On the wall nude  pin-ups have their place alongside crucifixes and images of Christ.
Miron Etnis, a zek from the 1950s and a representative of the Memorial  Association in Magadan, said: "In the old days you weren't allowed personal  effects or books or photos, and the bunk beds were stacked up in fours."
It is still isolated, but they no longer have the old solitary confinement  cells where you could neither sit nor lie down.
"The changes have been made recently," one of the inmates said.
In modern Russia there are no thought crimes, and forced labour has been  abandoned.
But in the forest the rusted barbed wire strands bear witness to the  Gulags where tens of thousands of prisoners died in terrible conditions.
A museum to their memory now stands in Magadan.
