China exceeded by 171 percent its 1993 export  quota set by the Association of Tin Producing Countries (ATPC), but has  pledged to keep exports below 20,000 tonnes this year to fulfil its commitment  as a new member, ATPC said Friday.
China exported 40,700 tonnes, exceeding the 15,000-tonne limit it agreed  to keep to last year, ATPC said in a communique at the end of its three-day  35th executive committee meeting here.
"Beijing had exported about 9,750 tonnes in the first quarter of this year  and has indicated it will keep its exports to within 20,000 tonnes for 1994,  since it has already signed up to be a member," an ATPC official said.
China, the world's largest tin producer, joined the 10-year old ATPC in  Bangkok on April 29 as the association's eighth member. Its membership  officially comes into effect June 29, ATPC said.
Brazil, the world's number two tin producer and represented at the meeting  by four members from the Parana Panema mining body, is an observer in the ATPC.
But it is cooperating with a supply rationalisation scheme ATPC launched  in 1987 to expedite depletion of surplus stocks and hasten a recovery of tin's  depressed prices.
"Brazil said its government has achieved control over Garimpeiro (illegal  mines) tin mining operations, especially in the Bom Futuro region. This should  enable Brazil to expedite her entry into the ATPC in the near future," the  official said.
Tin closed on Friday one sen higher at 14.09 Malaysian ringgit a kilo (2.2  pounds) on the Kuala Lumpur Tin Market.
ATPC officials said China's excessive exports last year had led to a  reaccumulation of the rocketing excess stocks, exacerbated by continuing large  disposals by the United States Defence Logistics Agency (USDLA) and new  supplies from non-ATPC members such as Peru, Portugal, Russia and Vietnam.
The ATPC had declined to provide an update of the global excess, which is  unofficially estimated at 38,700 tonnes at the end of March, beyond saying:  "With China's closer cooperation, and if the USDLA keeps disposals down, there  would be significant depletion this year."
ATPC, which has as members Australia, Bolivia, Indonesia, Malaysia,  Nigeria, Thailand and Zaire, accounts for 67 percent of the world's supply of  tin.
While tin industry experts have called for Brazil's membership, saying it  would be more meaningful if it came on board after China, ATPC officials said  Brazil's 1993 export of 23,100 tonnes was 3.8 percent below the agreed limit.
"Brazil's export of 4,500 tonnes for the first three months of the year  was 10.8 percent below its agreed limit for the period," the official said.
Output of ATPC members last year of 73,268 tonnes was 20.7 percent below  its agreed limit, while production of 14,258 tonnes for the first quarter of  the year was 26.9 percent below target, officials said.
"Producers would continue efforts to urge the US government to have a  mutually-agreed long term disposal-plan such that market disruptions could be  minimised when the USDLA disposes of tin," the official said.
ATPC is expected to formulate a more effective approach at its ministerial  conference in Bangkok scheduled for September 19-20, to be preceded by an  executive committee meeting from September 12-16, he said.
