President Nelson Mandela's state of the  nation address delivered when he opened parliament in Cape Town Tuesday drew  praise  from both big business and organised labour.
Appealing to all South Africans to get down to work and help build a free  and prosperous country, Mandela centered most of his address on the planned  benefits of the Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP), his blueprint  to solve South Africa's socio-economic problems.
Mandela set himself a target of 100 days to address "major areas of  desperate need" with projects "under the direct supervision of the president."
He listed these as free medical care in state hospitals for pregnant  mothers and children under six; a feeding scheme in primary schools; the  electrification of 350,000 homes during the current fiscal year; a campaign to  rebuild townships, and efforts at job creation and training.
Mandela also promised greater attention to "black economic empowerment and  support for the development of small and medium business ... (important) in  deracialising and democratising the economy and creating ... jobs."
Welcoming the speech, Afrikaanse Handelsinstituut (AHI) president Nols  Olivier Olivier said the economic priorities Mandela had set out formed the  basis of greater confidence and stability in South Africa's economy.
The AHI is one of two major business chambers in the country and groups  mainly Afrikaans-speaking business leaders.
Olivier said Mandela's promises of monetary and fiscal discipline, better  control of the economy and the more efficient use of state funds would  increase public sector productivity.
South Africa's largest labour federation, meanwhile, the Congress of South  African Trade Unions (COSATU), said in a statement that Mandela's speech had  sent an "electric wave of hope around South Africa."
"It was truly the speech of a people's president, reflecting his concern  first and foremost for the ordinary people of this land," COSATU said.
The federation pledged its "wholehearted support and undivided energy" in  ensuring the success of the RDP.
"We are hopeful that President Mandela's comments on unleashing the  economic potential of all our country's people will help to lay the basis for  a new relationship between employers and workers," COSATU said.
The speech was also welcomed by all the major parties in parliament -- his  own African National Congress, Frederik de Klerk's former ruling National  Party, the Zulu-based Inkatha Freedom Party, the liberal Democratic Party and  the white right-wing Freedom Front.
