A virulent, possibly mutant bacterium that devours  human tissue killed a woman in a London hospital Tuesday, the sixth victim  confirmed in Britain since January.
A spokesman at Queen Mary's Hospital in southwest London confirmed the  latest death, but gave no details.
Sources said the victim was a 45-year-old woman who contracted the  gangrene-like infection after giving birth by Caesarean section.
Official reports showed 12 other cases of the condition called necrotising  fasciitis, caused by streptococcus-A bacteria, scattered from Scotland to the  south of England, not just in the small area of Gloucestershire as earlier  thought.
Before Tuesday's death, the most recent victims to emerge were Terry  Bowden, 39, of the southeast county of Kent, who died last January, 36 hours  after being admitted to Lewisham Hospital with leg pain, and an unidentified  Hertfordshire woman who died last month.
"Occasionally, in fact very rarely, this bacterium does cause significant  life-threatening disease and that is of course what we're seeing now," said  Lewisham Hospital spokesman Robin Scott.
Details emerged as a team of microbiologists examined tissue samples from  the victims of the bacterium, which experts said could be a variety of a  streptococcus bacteria which had been mutated into a killer by a viral attack.
"Necrotising fasciitis is a severe inflammation of the sheath surrounding  muscles and in the most severe cases can lead to extensive tissue destruction  involving amputation and even death," said the Public Health Laboratory  Service (PHLS).
Government scientists said the seven cases, including three deaths,  reported around Gloucester, a concentration known as a "cluster," were  statistically unusual, but could still be a chance occurrence.
They said normally about 10 cases of the disease were reported in Britain  annually, two or three of them fatal.
There have been a total of 13 cases of the disease in Britain reported so  far this year, six of them fatal.
Christopher Bartlett, head of the PHLS Communicable Disease Surveillance  Centre, said "public anxiety should be allayed by the fact that we have  examined all indicators of streptococcal infection in the country and these  are demonstrating no change in either numbers or patters of infection."
What was particularly puzzling, said the experts, was that laboratory  tests showed different strains of the bacterium were involved.
Cleo McNulty, a consulting microbiologist with the Gloucestershire Public  Health Laboratory, said the outbreak "may be just a resurgence of a more  virulent type of this group that may have been around before the 1940s.
"With a lot of infections you get waves, up and down, of resurgence, and  we're now probably going into an up stage where we're getting more of this  particular virulent type."
McNulty said the bacterium in question "is carried by about 10 percent of  the population without any symptoms.
"Many may just complain of a sore throat. It's only rarely that the  organism gets into the blood stream and then may settle in damaged tissue."
She said there was speculation on why there was such massive tissue damage  in a relatively minute number of patients.
Either the bacteria "are colonized and infected by a much more virulent  strain that produces more toxins, or the patient may be immuno-suppressed,  that is, not able to cope with the infection," said McNulty.
One patient was reported in "stable but critical condition" in a  Gloucestershire hospital.
Meanwhile a victim who recovered said in an interview with The Times she  had lived through "everyone's worst nightmare: watching something eat my body."
Roseanne Miller, a 41-year-old nurse who developed the infection after  undergoing a hysterectomy, said infected flesh had to be cut away from her  abdomen and groin, and the wound left open for 10 days while surgeons  confirmed the infection had been eliminated.
