Without him, Holland edged out England and managed to qualify for the  finals along with Norway. But the Dutch only just caught the plane to the  United States and there was never much doubt that, if Gullit could swallow his  pride, he would be on it.
The absence of one of the game's most charismatic and articulate figures  would have been a major blow to the World Cup. For if anyone can sell soccer  to the Americans, Gullit can.
Outspokeness comes as second nature to most Dutch players. But while most  of them confine their outbursts to bickering about team tactics, Gullit is  more likely to be heard sounding off about AIDS or the plight of the Brazilian  rain forest.
In 1987, when he was named European player of the year, he dedicated his  award to the then-imprisoned Nelson Mandela. Alarmed by the growth of racism  in Europe he has put himself at the forefront of campaigs to stop it spilling  over onto the continent's terraces.
The social conscience has its origins in modest beginnings in Amsterdam as  the son of an immigrant from Surinam, the former Dutch colony on the Caribbean  coast of South America.
He first came to the attention of the world playing for Haarlem. He was  not the most gifted of youngsters but his presence on the field, an astute  sense of position and a surprisingly nimble touch for a 1.86m giant soon  caught the eye.
Moves to Feyenoord and then on to PSV Eindhoven followed and by 1987 he  was the most in-demand player in Europe. Berlusconi had to break the world  transfer record to take him to Milan, where he became the cornerstone of a  team that broke the defensive mould of Italian football.
An Italian league title in 1988, successive European Cups in 1989 and 1990  and the 1988 European championship with Holland -- followed.
But from 1989 Gullit's career was blighted by a sequence of knee injuries  and gradually he was eclipsed by Van Basten as the star of both Milan and  Holland. At the 1990 World Cup, which Holland started as favourites, Gullit  struggled with injuries and the Dutch did not get past the second round.
All that was forgotten however this season as Gullit turned in  performances of the highest class for Sampdoria and he will be aiming to put  his World Cup record straight when Holland kick off their campaign against  Saudi Arabia in Washington.
