The leader of a renegade Philippine communist  faction known for daring urban assassinations was arrested near here Thursday,  striking another severe blow to a faltering insurgent movement.
Felimon Lagman, chairman of the clandestine Communist Party of the  Philippines (CPP) regional committee for Manila and neighboring Rizal  province, was arrested alone in suburban Manila, the presidential palace  announced.
Naval intelligence agents captured the 41-year-old Lagman as he was  driving in Quezon city. An initial military report showed no signs of  resistance.
Lagman controlled the Alex Boncayao Brigade (ABB), which killed down more  than 200 people in the late 1980s, including a US Army colonel, but later  became relatively inactive following public outrage over its tactics.
Lagman recently gave clandestine press interviews indicating a resurgence  in ABB activities. Earlier this month, ABB hitmen assassinated a police  officer linked to kidnapping gangs.
Lagman's arrest came two days after masked ABB partisans staged a protest  in Manila's financial district to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the ABB, a  special unit of the estimated 8,000-strong communist New People's Army.
The ABB claims 500 members, mostly workers and youths, armed with assault  rifles, machine pistols and handguns. Some former ABB members have been linked  to bank robberies, kidnapping and other crimes.
President Fidel Ramos said the arrest of Lagman will result in a "very  significant weakening" of the 25-year-old communist insurgency, one of the  world's last surviving Marxist rebel movements.
Lagman was an advocate of urban armed struggle, splitting last year from  Netherlands-based party founder Jose Maria Sison, who has stuck to the classic  Maoist theory of rural warfare despite failing to seize power after 25 years.
Ramos is offering a political settlement, including amnesty, to communist  and Moslem guerrillas as well as right-wing military officers involved in coup  attempts against his predecessor Corazon Aquino.
But the former general has pursued efforts to arrest insurgents with  outstanding warrants of arrest.
Wilma Tiamzon, an ailing Sison loyalist and alleged secretary-general of  the CPP, was arrested earlier this month, but given provisional liberty on  humanitarian grounds.
Lagman's breakaway last year from the mainstream CPP triggered other  defections from Sison, who has called on the party faithful to reaffirm the  classic Maoist doctrine of encircling the cities from the countryside.
The ABB was behind the 1989 assassination of Colonel James Rowe, a  decorated Vietnam War veteran who coordinated US military aid to the  Philippines. Two ABB members are in jail for his slaying.
