As Bosnia's warring factions try once more to  find an end to their conflict, Sarajevans are finding that the fruits of their  provisional peace are sweet indeed.
The end of the Serb siege of the capital has sent prices of food and other  essentials plummeting from the sky-high levels they reached during the  fighting, allowing people to savour goodies they had not tasted for two years.
Children tuck into the bananas and oranges which are once more on sale on  market stalls laden with fresh fruit and vegetables that all but disappeared  during the siege.
The prices, which are still in German marks, remain high when set against  what Sarajevans earn on average but are cheap compared to the exorbitant  prices demanded by traders and black marketeers at the height of the shortages.
A kilogram (2.2 lbs) of bananas costs eight marks (five dollars) and a  lettuce three marks.
Sugar which rose to 80 marks a kilogram on the black market last winter is  now down to three marks. Potatoes can be bought for two marks a kilo compared  to 16 marks in February.
Soap powders, which also virtually vanished during the siege, are now  priced at 10 marks for a three kilo box.
Coffee which no self-respecting Sarajevan can do without has gone down  from 160 marks per kilo to 11.
Factors that contributed to improving the supply situation for the  beleaguered city include the ceasefire which seems to be holding, the opening  by the UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR) of the so-called "blue roads" which  allow goods to come in without going through Serb checkpoints, dryer weather  which has made mountain roads more passable, and the creation of the  Croat-Moslem federation which has reopened access to Croatia.
In groceries and supermarkets, the shelves are laden with products made in  Croatia, Slovenia or Germany, which in the former Yugoslavia were synonymous  with good quality.
In the new shop of the Delikates-88 chain in central Sarajevo, there was a  rush to buy Chinese children's canvas shoes at 20 marks a pair.
"We decided to give priority to imports of low-priced goods accessible to  consumers," said Saida Salcinovic, the shopowner's wife.
"We only take a 10 percent profit margin," she said.
Delikates-88, one of the pioneers of private enterprise in formerly  communist Yugoslavia, lost many of its shops in Serb-held areas. It never  ventured on to the black market and waited to receive permission before  reopening on May 18.
"My husband did not want to deal with middle-men. He goes himself to Split  (on the Croatian coast) to contact manufacturers and has bought his own  lorries," Salcinovic said.
After buying what he wants in Croatia, he has to pay an export tax to the  government in Zagreb then a toll to pass through Croat-held areas of Bosnia.
Customs duties are slapped on the goods when they arrive in Sarajevo, not  to mention various other taxes, she said.
It takes between six and 10 days to bring a convoy of goods from Croatia  to Sarajevo.
Alemko, another chain of shops, has gone for diversity, selling different  sorts of cheese, various brands of mayonnaises and an assortment of canned  peeled tomatoes.
"My mother earns less than one mark in Bosnian coupons whereas I earn 150  marks in hard currency. In this town, there's lots of money but not in  everyone's pocket," a salesgirl said.
All the convoys have to pass through Butmir-Sarajevo airport. After  travelling via Mostar and Jablanica, they wind down to Butmir over the narrow  roads of Mount Igman.
In Butmir they have to wait to be controlled by UN troops. This takes two  hours.
The UNPROFOR men carry out routine checks to make sure the convoys are not  carrying arms. The ceasefire accords stipulate that only "humanitarian goods"  are allowed through.
Petrol which also comes in this way could be considered to be of strategic  importance but the French officer in charge of the UN troops said Serb liaison  officers had never raised any objections.
"Nothing would be possible unless the UN sometimes looked the other way,"  said Bosnian External Trade Minister Dragoljub Stojanov, who also acknowledged  that the Serbs had been tolerant.
"But one supply route is not enough to say the siege is over," he said.
"We are not placing any limits on imports because people are hungry for  everything and for food above all else. But these imports are a serious drain  on capital and we have no way of reviving production, " Stojanov said.
Trade is booming meanwhile. Between March and early May, Sarajevo imported  11.9 million marks worth of supplies, nearly all food.
Since then one large importer has applied for a license to import supplies  worth 16 million marks and another associated group wants to spend 50 million  marks, ministry figures showed.
