An end to the jamming was one of the conditions set by Clinton for MFN  renewal. Until now, China had denied jamming VOA and refused to discuss the  problem.
US officials have also pointed to a new agreement on prison labor which  human rights groups have dismissed as largely symbolic.
China has released some dissidents in recent months, but it has also  detained others in the run-up to the fifth anniversary on June 4 of the  Tiananmen Square massacre.
A senior US official travelling in the Middle East with Secretary of State  Warren Christopher told reporters Tuesday that Washington may impose limited  sanctions on Beijing to express displeasure over its human rights performance,  rather than withdraw MFN outright.
"It's not all or nothing," the official said, but he added that "the  practicality of this range of alternatives is something we must assess,"  refusing to elaborate.
There has been much talk among members of Congress and elsewhere in recent  weeks that rather than put in jeopardy a 40 billion dollar trade relationship  and an estimated 160,000 US jobs or more by withdrawing MFN, Clinton could go  for targeted sanctions -- for example by hitting the state-owned sector.
Such a compromise formula however has been criticised both by the human  rights lobby, which says Clinton must stick to his threat if China has not  made the required human rights progress, and the business lobby, which says  this would have the same ultimate effect as outright withdrawal.
China has warned that it would retaliate if Washington imposes sanctions,  and Prime Minister Li Peng warned this week that China would not tolerate  interference in its internal affairs.
Clinton is mired in a mess of his own making, the result of a campaign  pledge to be tough on China over human rights, and his decision last year to  identify seven areas where China must make significant progress to maintain  its MFN status.
There seems to be general agreement within the administration that no such  specific conditions will be set in the future, but Clinton needs to find a way  to get past June 3 this year that he can sell to his own supporters.
Senate Majority leader George Mitchell said in a television interview  Sunday that he favored some sanctions against China if it failed to meet  Clinton's conditions by June 3.
