Russian special forces shot dead one gunman and  arrested three others Friday 24 hours after they hijacked a schoolbus and led  authorities on a road and helicopter chase through the Caucasus, officials  said.
The last four hostages, three women and a man, were released unharmed in  the rescue operation launched by elite interior ministry troops when the  hijackers landed a getaway helicopter in Russia's rebellious republic of  Chechnya, interior ministry officials said.
The four men, ethnic Chechens armed with submachine guns and a grenade,  hijacked the schoolbus Thursday near the Caucasus village of Mineralnye Voday,  taking 23 adults and 15 children hostage.
They eventually released the 15 children and most of the adults in  exchange for eight million dollars in ransom money, more arms and morphine in  an operation staggered over several hours.
About 800 troops were deployed at the site of the hostage-taking, which  topped nightly newscasts on Russian television amid reports that the hijackers  were threatening to chop off the children's heads if their demands were not  met.
Authorities eventually provided the helicopter, which was trailed by five  military helicopters carrying troops from the elite "Alpha" interior ministry  forces when it finally took off from Mineralnye Voday early Friday.
Upon landing in Chechnya, the gunmen fled to a forest near the village  Bacha-Yurt and engaged interior ministry forces in a one-hour pursuit that  ended in a gunbattle near the border between Chechnya and Dagestan, another  Russian republic.
An interior ministry official said the ransom money was recovered on board  the helicopter.
The four freed hostages were taken to Mineralnye Vody along with the three  hijackers, who were detained in prison pending charges.
The hostage-taking was the fourth to occur in the crime-ridden Caucusas  region in the past five years.
The previous hostage drama occured last December when 15 schoolchildren  were abducted in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-the-Don.
Those hostage-takers commandeered a helicopter and led authorities on a  four-day airborne pursuit through the Caucasus before releasing their hostages  one by one in return for 10 million dollars in ransom, most of which was later  recovered.
