Russian President Boris Yeltin's leading opponents,  headed by his former deputy Alexander Rutskoi and Communist Party leader  Gennadi Zyuganov, are to meet Saturday to map out a strategy for returning to  power.
Their National Council in the "parliamentary centre" here will bring  together communists, nationalists and all those who refused to sign the peace  pact Yeltsin put forward in April.
Rutskoi, who masterminded the failed coup against Yeltsin that was  brutally put down by Russian troops last October, is the driving force behind  Saturday's meeting.
Former constitutional court president Valery Zorkin, who tried to veto  Yeltsin's decree last September suspending the Russian parliament, was also  billed to attend.
Zyuganov said: "It is a meeting of 200 to 250 people with the aim of  taking concrete decisions on the programme and the organisation of those who  oppose the currrent authorities."
He called on the right and the left to form an anti-Yeltsin alliance.
According to the agenda, Zorkin will speak first, offering an analysis of  the political situation, followed by Zyuganov, who will talk about the nature  of the state in Russia.
Former foreign trade minister Sergei Glaziev is to give a report on the  economic crisis, before handing over to opposition lawmaker Sergei Baburin and  conservative industrialist Piotr Romanov, the deputy chairman of Russia's  upper house the Federation Council.
Rutskoi wants the opposition to get down immediately to the task of  preparing for a general election at the end of next year.
"We have to take the majority of seats in parliament," he said in an  interview Friday with the daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, reiterating that he will  run for president in the next presidential election, set for June 1996.
"At present I do not see any credible leader in the opposition for whom I  could make way," Rutskoi said. "But I am ready to do so.
"Above all, we are looking to the patriotic forces, which for the time  being are split up into a multitude of different parties, socio-political  movements and foundations.
"If the 'patriots' do not manage to reach an agreement with the  communists, then the communists will put up their own candidate," he said.
In Rutskoi's view, the "crisis in our society will be settled only by the  presidential elections."
He dismissed initiatives such as Yeltsin's social pact, saying they would  "serve no purpose, other than to aggravate the explosive situation in the  country."
Around 20,000 flysheets were handed out in Moscow last week urging people  to join the "patriotic" movement, he said.
"So far 8,752 people have already responded to the call, expressing their  desire to join our ranks, and sympathetic messages have been flooding in.
"We already have cooperation agreements with a dozen organisations and  political movements," Rutskoi said.
Elsewhere in the long interview, he recounted the four and a half months  he spent in the Lefortovo prison.
He was captured on October 4 in the White House parliament building, where  hardline lawmakers had been holed up in defiance of Yeltsin's decree  suspending parliament, and freed on February 26, after the Duma voted to  release him.
