Defending champion Steffi Graf, faced with the  increasingly likely prospect of a tough semi-final clash against French  teenager Mary Pierce, survived some nervous moments when she played  20-year-old South African Joanette Kruger at the French Open here on Friday.
Graf, who is chasing a fifth consecutive Grand Slam title and who has been  beaten only twice in the last twelve months, finally reached the fourth-round  by beating her 83rd ranked opponent 6-0, 4-6, 6-2.
But it was by no means easy -- and a stark contrast to Pierce's ruthless  6-0, 6-0, 58-minute hammering of experienced American Lori McNeil. The  Candian-born 19-year-old was given a standing ovation after her win.
Playing on Roland Garros' ultra-modern newly-contructed 'A' showcourt,  Graf appeared to be having things all her own way when she pocketed the first  set to love.
But the titleholder then went distinctly off the boil.
The plucky South African, who had been beaten in the first-round of all  four of her previous Grand Slam tournaments, sensed a chance of an upset, took  risks and went from strength to strength.
In bitter cold and overcast conditions, Graf needed to return to basics  and work hard to re-establish her authority in the unfamiliar setting of a  third set.
"I certainly wasn't happy with the way I played today but it was good for  me to have that kind of match," said Graf, adding: "There are a lot of things  I have to improve.
"But she played well and was trying really hard."
In the fourth-round Graf will play Romania's Irina Spirlea, who earlier in  the day ended the run of last year's finalist Mary Joe Fernandez with a 6-4,  6-1 win.
It was a day when the emerging new guard blew away another two seeds.
Apart from Fernandez, the number-fifteen Helena Sukova was also toppled by  Ines Gorrochategui of Argentina.
The 29-year-old Czech player's 6-7 (8/10), 6-7 (1/7) defeat means that  eight seeds have failed to reach the first weekend.
Other newcomers to reach the last-sixteen included Spirlea's 21-year-old  compatriot Ruxamdra Dragomir, Croatian teenager Iva Majoli and Kruger's fellow  South African Amanda Coetzer.
