Summers
(UPDATES with more Summers quotes, details of talks and background)
by Jean-Louis Santini
WASHINGTON, May 18 (AFP) - The United States wants a concrete, credible  trade agreement with Japan, going beyond the failures of the past, US Deputy  Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers said here Wednesday.
Speaking a day before US and Japanese negotiators meet in Washington to  try to break a three-month deadlock in bilateral trade talks, Summers said  there had not been "any backing away" in the US position in the negotiations.
"We need a concrete, credible agreement going beyond the failure of the  past," Summers said.
Both sides have said they want to make progress before the Group of Seven  summit in Naples in July.
Bilateral trade talks collapsed in February over disagreement on how to  measure progress in opening Japan's markets and reducing its 60 billion dollar  trade surplus with Washington. Since then, Washington has said it was up to  Tokyo to come up with new proposals.
The US side has said it will not abandon its call for numerical targets to  measure progress in market opening, while Tokyo has rejected such targets,  saying they mean managed trade.
But President Bill Clinton's top economic advisor, Laura D'Andrea Tyson,  said in an interview published Tuesday that it may be time to ease pressure on  Japan because of the domestic political upheaval in Tokyo.
"The issue here is ... trying to moderate or adjust the timing to the  political realities in Japan without changing the overall thrust of the  policy," Tyson said in an interview published in the Washington Post.
Reports in Tokyo Wednesday said that Japan appeared ready to accept  specific targets in the field of government procurement to revive the stalled  trade talks.
In the talks starting Thursday in Washington, the Japanese side is  expected to propose setting "some criteria" to gauge Japanese government  procurement of various products, the Nihon Keizai Shimbun newspaper said.
Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa hinted at a compromise earlier this week,  saying Japan "might show some numerical gauges over government procurement."
And a Japanese international trade and industry ministry official said "it  is possible that we will have to make drastic decisions to realize an increase  in our procurements from overseas."
Summers on Wednesday reaffirmed the US government's opposition to allowing  the dollar to weaken as a way of reducing the cost of US exports and making it  easier for them to penetrate the Japanese market.
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen had already "made it clear that the United  States sees no advantage in an undervalued dollar," Summers said.
US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor is to meet here Thursday with  Japanese negotiators Sozabaru Okamatsu, vice minister at the international  trade and industry ministry, and Sakayuki Hayashi, deputy foreign minister for  economic affairs, in a bid to get the stalled trade talks back on track.
But USTR officials stressed Thursday that the session was "talks about  talks" to discuss the basis for a return to the negotiating table, and not a  resumption of full-fledged negotiations.
They refused to comment on the reports out of Tokyo that Japan would be  willing to accept specific targets in the field of government targets.
The Washington talks are scheduled to last just one day, but they could be  extended if necessary, USTR officials said.
The two sides are trying to agree on the definition of "objective  criteria" to measure progress in opening Japan's markets in the key areas of  government procurement, the auto trade, and financial services under a  framework agreement reached in July last year.
The government procurement talks cover computers, supercomputers,  satellites, medical technology and telecommunications.
