Two ground-to-ground SCUD missiles ripped into  the southern Yemeni capital Aden late Thursday, injuring four people,  according to hospital sources, in the first missile strike on the city since  civil war broke out on May 5.
One of the missiles hit the aiport and the other landed in a residential  area in the northeast of the city.
A spokesman for the city's main al-Thawra hospital said the four  casualties it had received had been hurt in the attack on the airport, adding  that the injured from the other attack had not yet been brought in for  treatment.
The attacks triggered panic in the southern suburbs, as residents took  shelter on the lower floors and in the stairwells of apartment blocks, an AFP  correspondent on the scene said.
Deputy tourism Minister Yahya Abdel Kawi, a senior official of the Yemeni  Socialist Party, the main political force in the south, told AFP a missile had  hit the hulk of a Soviet-era Antonov transport plane standing well away from  the main runways.
Abdel Kawi, who had visited the scene, said he was not sure if anybody had  been injured in the strike.
Fire broke out in the area, and the plume of smoke could be seen from the  nearby hotel where most of the Western journalists covering the civil war are  staying. Soldiers turned backed journalists who tried to get to the scene.
Witnesses said the al-Badr barracks, where Aden's anti-aircraft battery  crews are garrisoned, as well as the Aden peninsula, where the officiers club  is situated, had been hit, although it was not known if the club itself had  been damaged.
The second missile slammed into the Jebel Shams residential district,  Abdel Kawi said, without giving further details.
Ambulances and fire engines were still coming and going one hour after the  attacks.
Northern troops consolidated their positions to the north of the city with  firefights and hand-to-hand fighting Thursday, casualties said.
They have been tightening the noose around the city since they took the  main al-Anad airbase some 50 kilometres (30 miles) to the north on Monday.
On the eastern front, mortar shells fell Thursday on the first control  post on the outskirts of the city, some 10 kilometres (six miles) from the  city centre, journalists said.
A southern source said the policy-making bodies of the Yemeni Socialist  Party were meeting Thursday evening to finalise plans to set up a High Council  of National Salvation, which he said would function as a kind of government.
The idea was floated after the fall of al-Anad on Monday, when Abdel  Rahman al-Jifri, who heads a bloc of five opposition parties, said the council  would function wherever it had influence, and would not constitute a  government of South Yemen.
Conservative North Yemen and the formerly Marxist South Yemen merged in  May 1990 to form a new republic, but their armies were never integrated, and  Vice-President Salem al-Baid, a southerner, left the joint capital Sanaa last  August for Aden, complaining of inadequate power-sharing.
A well-informed southern source said Thursday that al-Baid left Aden two  days ago for Hadramout province near the Omani border, some 600 kilometres  (372 miles).
The northerners have demanded that al-Baid surrender and stand trial for  treason.
