Germany's Michael Schumacher swept to his fourth  victory of the Formula One season here on Sunday in a Monaco Grand Prix which  was won and lost within the opening seconds.
Schumacher, who has won every race this year, came home clear of Britain's  Martin Brundle in the McLaren-Peugeot and Austrian veteran Gerhard Berger in  the Ferrari.
The race, still overshadowed by Formula One's recent tragedies, made a  dramatic start when Damon Hill's Williams-Renault shunted into the back of the  other McLaren, driven by Mika Hakkinen, forcing both men out.
The low-speed accident came just after the green light as both men plunged  into the first bend after Schumacher in the Benetton-Ford.
Drivers, officials and motorsport fans had been praying for an  accident-free race on this relatively slow street circuit, following Karl  Wendlinger's crash here on Thursday which has left the Austrian in a deep coma.
The legendary race is also the first since Hill's teammate Ayrton Senna  and Roland Ratzenberger were killed in crashes at the San Marino Grand Prix  two weeks ago.
Schumacher, now almost certain to win this year's world championship, led  from start to finish while the two Ferraris of Berger and Jean Alesi scrapped  with Christian Fittipaldi in the Footwork-Ford in the early stages.
With so few opportunities to overtake on the winding streets of the  Principality, the places tended to change only with pit-stops for refuelling  or a retirement with mechanical problems.
Among those challengers to fall by the wayside were Britain's Mark  Blundell in the Tyrell-Yamaha and Brazilian Rubens Barrichello in the Jordan  Hart.
Blundell's bad lack was also shared by Berger, whose car spun round after  hitting a patch of oil left by the blown engine on the Englishman's Tyrell,  costing him a second place.
By the halfway stage, Schumacher was half a minute clear of Brundle, with  Berger third and Alesi fourth. Fittipaldi's charge ended with two thirds of  the race gone when he retired, thereby bringing Barrichello's Italian teammate  Andrea de Cesaris into the fray.
