Kantor
(INSERTS background)
WASHINGTON, May 13 (AFP) - US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said he  had agreed Friday with Japanese Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa on the need for  preliminary contacts to resume bilateral trade talks.
The so-called framework agreement negotiations collapsed last February  because of a dispute over how to measure progress in opening Japan's market  and reducing its 60-billion-dollar trade surplus with the United States.
In Tokyo, officials said Kakizawa had agreed to resume the stalled  framework talks, but Kantor's statement spoke only of preliminary contacts.
"Ambassador Kantor agreed with the suggestion of Foreign Minister Kakizawa  on the need for preliminary contact between both sides to explore the basis  for resumption of the framework talks," the statement said.
"They both shared the hope that a basis will emerge for the resumption of  the framework talks before the July G7 meeting in Naples," it said.
Kakizawa called Kantor and they discussed the issue for 30 minutes, the  statement said.
The trade talks were suspended in February after Japan refused to accept  the principle of numerical targets to measure progress in opening its market  to foreign goods and services.
On Wednesday, Kantor said the United States was receptive to resuming the  talks, but that the first move was up to Japan.
A spokesman for Kantor also denied knowledge of a possible visit to  Washington next week of two high-level Japanese officials -- Sozaburo  Okamatsu, vice minister of international affairs at the Ministry of  International Trade and Industry (MITI), and Sadayuki Hayashi, deputy minister  of economic affairs -- to try to end the impasse.
Their visit was announced early Friday in Tokyo by Japanese Trade Minister  Eijiro Hata.
One problem in the bilateral trade dispute is that President Bill Clinton  has had to deal with three different Japanese prime ministers in less than a  year.
Clinton reached a so-called framework agreement with then-Japanese prime  minister Kiichi Miyazawa in July under which Washington was to take steps to  control its economy, notably by reducing its budget deficit.
In return Japan would take steps to open its markets in four key areas:  automobiles and auto parts, medical equipment, insurance and  telecommunications.
The July 1993 accord gave the two sides six months to work out key  details, notably how they were to measure progress in opening Japan's markets.
By the time the six months was up in February, Miyazawa had fallen, to be  replaced by the pro-reform Morihiro Hosokawa.
But the new Japanese administration refused to accept the US call for  numerical targets to measure progress, saying this smacked of managed trade  and quotas.
Hosokawa resigned on April 8 and was replaced by Tsutomu Hata in late  April.
Washington meanwhile has held firm to its insistence that the "objective  criteria" enshrined in the original framework accord meant concrete measures  of progress, and that had to include numbers in some form.
Kantor said Tuesday that while problems remained over the framework  agreement, there had been "great strides" in other areas of the trade  relationship with Japan in recent months.
He cited Japan's agreement to accept imported rice, an accord giving US  company Motorola better access to the Japanese cellular telephone market and  an agreement on copper.
Since the breakdown of the trade talks the United States has re-instituted  Super 301, a trade law allowing it to impose unilateral sanctions on countries  it considers guilty of unfair trade practices.
