A tobacco company patented a process to make a  safer cigarette in 1966 but dropped the idea amid fears it would make its  other products look bad, The New York Times said Friday.
The abandoned step would have heated the tobacco instead of burning it,  eliminating the process that creates most of the hazardous substances in  tobacco smoke, the Times reported.
The Brown and Williamson Tobacco Corp., a subsidiary of the London-based  British-American Tobacco PLC, tested the process in a cigarette code-named  Ariel and was granted a patent in 1966 but decided to shelve the idea, the  daily said, citing internal company documents.
The company decided against bringing the safer cigarettes to market for  fear it would reflect poorly on its other products and out of concern that  smokers would find them less satisfying and therefore would not buy them, the  paper said, citing the documents and interviews with the scientists working on  the project.
Ariel was developed in the 1960s and the company applied for a patent in  1964. The Times said the documents indicate the Ariel cigarette would have  greatly reduced the cancer-causing substances in cigarette smoke and the  amount of secondhand smoke produced, as well as potential fire hazards.
But in 1964, company executives in various internal documents expressed  fear of disclosing too much harmful information about smoking and of  subsequent lawsuits, according to the daily.
The company shelved its research on both the hazards of cigarettes and  solutions to make them safer. The BAT laboratory in Harrogate, Britain, where  most of the research was conducted, was closed.
Thomas Fitzgerald, a spokesman for Brown and Williamson, told the Times:  "From the description given to us, it appears you are basing your article on  attorney-client privileged documents that were stolen by a former employee of  a law firm that worked for Brown and Williamson. Anybody who knowingly uses  stolen information is in fact contributing to an illegal act. We have no  further comment."
Brown and Williamson eventually marketed low tar and nicotine brands of  cigarettes, among them Merit, but none were as safe as Ariel, the paper  pointed out.
Another cigarette company, Liggett and Myers, also developed a safer  cigarette in research that began in 1955, but decided to shelve it, the daily  said.
Thomas Mold, retired assistant director of research at Liggett and Myers,  told the Times that his group created the safer product which was ready for  market by 1979, but he was told that executives, on the advice of lawyers,  voted not to produce it.
"We wrote up the work we had done in a paper for publication, but we were  not allowed to publish it," Mold said.
