Top French executive Didier Pineau-Valencienne  has been joined in his Brussels jail by an Italian banker, prison officials  said Monday as French business leaders protested the arrest of the Frenchman  on fraud charges.
Both Pineau-Valencienne and the banker, Valentino Foti, whose arrest came  at about the same time on Friday, face charges of forgery, using false  documents, fraud, false accounting and breach of confidence, investigators  said.
Foti is the main stockholder of the Belgian real estate and financial  company Patience et Beaujonc, a subsidiary of the French electrical and  engineering giant Schneider SA.
Both men were held after turning up voluntarily to answer questions from  Belgian police in connection with the the sale of two Schneider subsidiaries,  Cofibel and Cofimines.
Under Belgian law the two can be held for five days, until Wednesday, when  they must appear before a judge.
Over the weekend, 36 leading French business figures, including former  French premier Edith Cresson, signed a public statement in defence of  Pineau-Valencienne, while Belgian officials said French Prime Minister Edouard  Balladur had telephoned his Belgian counterpart in connection with the case.
The statement said the signatories wanted to "express the emotion which  they feel about the action taken against Pineau-Valencienne," and praised his  "moral rigour, integrity and competence."
An official at the financial police here said investigators were "very  pleased" at the way the enquiry was going, adding that "charges were becoming  more precise."
The investigation arose out of the proposed sale of Cofibel and Cofimines  in November 1992 when a dispute arose over the price at which the shares were  offered on the open market.
Minority share-holders last winter won a court decision forcing Schneider  to raise the price of the shares, thereby ending the dispute.
But the minority shareholders had also launched criminal proceedings,  accusing the French firm of willfully underestimating the value of the  companies.
The minority shareholders were notably angry at a decision by the two  subsidiaries to invest in the Belgian PB Finance, a group which also welcomed  investments by the Swiss Fimo AG bank, headed by Foti, which Italian and US  police suspected of involvement in mafia money-laundering.
In 1990, Fimo brought into PB Finance assets owned by Sirix Intervitrum, a  pharmaceutical glass group with troubled companies in France, Italy and the  Netherlands whose collapse damaged Cofibel and Cofimines.
In October last, Pineau-Valencienne, while acknowledging he was  technically head of Cofibel, said investments by the company had been taken  care of by its manager, who died a year ago.
Schneider in October 1993 filed suit against six Belgian newspapers asking  for more than 400 million francs (70 million dollars) in damages for articles  alleging a link between the Swiss bank Fimo and the laundering of drug money.
