US satellite maker Hughes Aircraft has confirmed  that the launch later this year of three satellites aboard Chinese rockets  will go ahead as planned, despite a recent launch-site explosion, the China  Daily said Saturday.
The April 2 explosion, which killed two people and injured 20 more during  testing for a new Chinese geostationary satellite at the Xichang launch centre  in western Sichaun province, had cast doubts over the launch of the  Hughes-made satellites.
However, the president of Hughes Asia Pacific, John Koehler, said Friday  that the US company had every confidence in the Chinese launch programme and  the efficacy of its Long March carriers.
"We're confident that the Long March is a reliable vehicle, and we are  going to put our satellites on the Long March rockets," the newspaper quoted  Koehler as saying.
Investigations into the April explosion have yet to determine a cause.
The first Hughes satellite -- the Australian-owned Optus B3 -- will be  launched within the next few months, Koehler said, replacing the Optus B2  satellite that was destroyed in a post-launch explosion aboard a Long March  rocket in December 1992.
China pinned the blame for that failure on the Hughes-made satellite, but  some foreign experts have called into question the construction and relatively  simple technology of the Chinese rockets.
However, Koehler stressed that joint investigations into the incident by  Chinese and Hughes experts had uncovered no clear cause for the explosion.
China began its satellite-launch operations in 1970 and has in recent  years marketed its commercial launch services as a reliable and cheaper  alternative to those offered by the United States' National Aeronautics and  Space Administration (NASA) and Europe's Ariane space programme.
China announced earlier this month that it would launch some 30 foreign  satellites over the next seven years.
Hughes has signed an umbrella agreement with China that envisages "a  significant number of launches next year" using Long March carriers, Koehler  said, adding that he was confident the US government would not block the  programme.
The United States banned high-technology exports -- including  communications satellites -- to China in August last year after concluding  that the Chinese military had sold M-11 missile parts to Pakistan in violation  of the Missile Technology Control Regime.
The satellite ban was eased in January, although certain restrictions  remain in place.
"We will work very hard to make sure that we are permitted to play in the  China market and deliver every launch we have promised," Koehler said, adding  that cooperation with China "is our long-term fundamental strategy."
The other two Hughes-made satellites -- the Apstar 1 and Apstar 2 owned by  the Hong Kong-based and Chinese-backed APT Satellite Co. -- are scheduled for  launch from Xichang in July and December respectively.
