President Bill Clinton will renew China's trade  privileges but also likely impose limited sanctions for Beijing's human rights  abuses, informed sources here said Wednesday.
They said the sanctions could involve a ban on imports of weapons and  ammunition made by the Chinese military. Washington might also establish a US  commission to monitor China's progress on human rights.
Several sources said Clinton could announce his decision on Thursday but  the White House kept the option open of waiting until Friday while the  president discussed the nature of sanctions with US congressional leaders.
"It (the announcement) could come as early as tomorrow," said presidential  press secretary Dee Dee Myers. "He has not made a final decision. He has made  some decisions. He has still a couple of things that are undecided."
Officials said the move to couple renewal of China's Most Favoured Nation  (MFN) trading status with a ban on weapons imports was recommended by  Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who met with Clinton on Wednesday.
Clinton also met with his national security adviser Anthony Lake.
Asked whether the weapons ban was the main item left to be decided, Myers  said, "Yes, it's along those lines."
Some congressmen have said they will press for tougher action.
Clinton warned last year that renewal of China's MFN status, which brings  the lowest available US tariffs on imports, depended on China showing "overall  significant progress" on human rights.
He outlined seven areas needing improvement before the June 3 deadline for  deciding on whether to maintain China's MFN status for another year, and asked  Christopher to submit a report.
Administration officials said Christopher found China had met the minimum  requirements in two areas: cooperation in ending the export of prison-made  goods and allowing relatives of some dissidents to leave the country.
Although mixed results were reported in the other five areas, the  officials added, the progress described by the secretary of state provided  narrow legal grounds for MFN renewal.
Although billions of dollars in trade and access to the booming Chinese  market are at stake, the White House has insisted that it would not give up on  pressing Beijing to end rights abuses.
But the ban on imports of Chinese weapons will not satisfy some  legislators who have announced their intention to fight for stiffer measures  against Beijing.
Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi, one of the spearheads of the drive to take a  tough line with the Chinese, said that credible sanctions were essential.
"If the sanctions (to be announced) are good enough that would be great,"  the California Democrat said. "Otherwise you will see a movement in Congress  to strengthen them."
Pelosi and Senate Majority leader George Mitchell, a Democrat from Maine,  are working on legislation that would apply sanctions on products manufactured  by other state-run Chinese industries in addition to the military.
A coalition of human rights groups charged Monday that China had failed to  meet criteria set by Clinton a year ago and that conditions had actually  become worse in China.
But some activists acknowledged it would be difficult for Clinton to  revoke MFN entirely, and called for targeted sanctions.
Business interests, fearing a huge drop in trade, urged MFN be granted  with no strings attached.
In recent weeks China has moved to ensure renewal of its MFN status by  granting visas to would-be emigres and releasing some political prisoners.
It also invited Washington to send a mission to Beijing to discuss  complaints over China's jamming of broadcasts by the Voice of America.
