The UN secretary general, Boutros  Boutros-Ghali blamed the international community for allowing the slaughter in  Rwanda, which he called genocide.
He said he still hoped that 5,500 UN troops would be able to land in the  east African country.
"Let's recognize that it is a failure not only for the UN but also for the  international community. All of us are responsible for this failure," he said  at a press conference at the United Nations in New York.
He blamed "the great powers, the African powers, the NGOs  (non-governmental organizations), all the international community. It is a  genocide.
More than 200,000 people have been killed in nearly two months of ethnic  warfare and massacres in Rwanda. Boutros-Ghali decried the fact that after so  much time and spilled blood "the international society is still discussing  what ought to be done."
He said he had begged UN members to send troops to stem the violence.
"Unfortunately, with great humility, I failed. It is a scandal," he  complained.
However Boutros-Ghali said Ethiopia, Ghana and Senegal had agreed to  contribute a total of 2,000 troops to the UN mission in Rwanda. He added he  had been in contact with Egypt, Nigeria and Zimbabwe, although there are  problems in finding enough transportation equipment.
"Unless we have the support of the member states, we will not be able to  obtain the troops which we need on the ground," he said.
Boutros-Ghali recommended deploying UN troops both inside the Rwandan  capital of Kigali and on the borders to protect the thousands of refugees.
Although certain UN operations are bound to fail, "it must not be an  obstacle to additional operations all over the world if the protagonists are  asking our participation," he said.
"It is like going to a hospital. You can't say I don't want to take this  case. There is a moral responsibility," he said.
He said UN members were simply tired of financing and participating in so  many UN missions at once, which have grown from about three being run at one  time to the current 17.
The end of the Cold War means that the international community has lost  interest in far flung places whose problems were in many instances created by  the superpower rivalry, Boutros-Ghali said.
