South Africa made its entry to the Non-Aligned  Movement (NAM) here Tuesday as foreign ministers opened a conference without  founding member Yugoslavia.
Representatives from more than 80 countries were to try and map out a new  post-Cold War strategy for the almost 40-year-old organisation during the  conference in the Egyptian capital.
The four-day meeting was also to discuss the conflicts in Yemen, Bosnia  and Rwanda, and it provided a forum for at least a handshake between Iran's  and Egypt's foreign ministers, whose countries broke off ties 15 years ago.
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, in an opening address, hailed the  "victory of the will of the South African people and its recent entry into the  international community as a non-racial democratic country."
"This important experience, based on dialogue and negotiation, deserves  the congratulations of the entire world for its people and its president,  Nelson Mandela," he said.
On the same day, South Africa was readmitted to the Commonwealth and  became the 109th member of NAM, following its first all-race elections last  month.
But the seat of Yugoslavia, a founding member of the organisation founded  in Bandung, Indonesia, in 1955, remained empty.
Bosnia took part as a guest of Egypt, but NAM officials ignored a Serbian  request to attend the conference. Egypt has slammed Serbian aggression in  Bosnia and said it was not the "sole legitimate heir" of Yugoslavia.
Erfan Ljubijankic, the Bosnian foreign minister, said the decision to keep  out Serbia was a sign that NAM had "matured because it rejects aggression."
A contact group on Bosnia formed by the Organisation of the Islamic  Conference was to meet in Cairo on Wednesday, Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr  Mussa said.
Arab foreign ministers, meanwhile, were to meet to discuss the civil war  in Yemen as the UN Security Council started to discuss proposals for a  ceasefire in the conflict between northern and southern forces.
Yemeni Foreign Minister Mohammad Bassandawa, a northerner, is taking part  in the conference.
On the sidelines of the meeting, Mussa said he would meet his Iranian  counterpart Ali Akbar Velayati. But a spokesman for the Iranian delegation  said no such talks were scheduled.
In the opening ceremony, Mussa walked over to shake hands with Velayati,  the highest-ranking Iranian official to visit Cairo since Iran severed ties in  1979 because Egypt signed a peace treaty with Israel and hosted Iran's ousted  shah.
Mubarak said in his address that NAM still had a role to play despite the  breakup of the Soviet Union and end of superpower rivalry, but it had to map  out a fresh strategy.
"Let us agree in this conference to set a new schedule for our movement to  direct our efforts," he said.
A draft of the final resolution stresses the importance of reforms to the  movement's structure and workings.
To face the international changes, Mubarak said NAM should integrate with  the rest of the world, politically and economically.
The president said NAM should intensify attempts to open dialogues with  all countries, and coordinate with the Group of 77 so that it could represent  the interests of developing countries within the United Nations.
Economically, NAM should learn to deal with the "new reality" of economic  groupings such as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT.)
Disarmament, a restructuring of the United Nations and economic  cooperation as well as finding a successor to Indonesia as chairman of NAM  were also on the agenda.
