Former communists were heading for an absolute  majority in the Hungarian parliament Sunday after four years of conservative  rule, according to initial results from run-off elections.
But political analysts said Hungary's future government would likely be a  coalition between the former communists, who now call themselves the Hungarian  Socialist Party, and the liberal Alliance of Free Democrats, in order to make  up the two-thirds majority needed to pass major legislation.
With 57.36 percent of the votes counted in 174 constituencies where the  winner needed only a simple majority, the Hungarian Socialist Party was in the  lead in 146 and had already secured 71 seats outright in the country's second  democratic election since the fall of communism in 1989.
Added to the 55 seats it gained in the first round of voting on May 8,  this would give the socialists 201 seats -- seven more than the 194 needed for  an absolute majority in the 386-member assembly.
If the socialists do in fact dominate the election, Hungary would join  Poland in shifting back to the left in what is seen as a backlash against the  pain of market-oriented economic reform. Former communists dominated general  elections in Poland in September of last year.
Earlier the Szonda-Ipsos institute predicted that the socialists, led by  former foreign minister Gyula Horn would win 208 of the 386 seats. Another  pollster, the Median Institute, gave it 196 seats.
The party is made up of former communists and had only 33 seats in the  outgoing parliament.
In all 259 of a total of 386 seats was being decided in the second round  vote, with 174 to be decided by simple majority in individual constituencies,  provided participation is at least 25 percent.
The remaining 85 slots will be assigned according to a proportional  distribution scheme. The other seats were settled in the first round of voting  on May 8.
Hungary's first post-communist election was held in March and April 1990,  and resulted in a coalition led by the conservative Democratic Forum.
During the recent election campaign Horn indicated that he was prepared to  form a ruling coalition with "any democratic force which has not compromised  itself in government over the last four years."
Observers pointed out that such comments could allow for an even broader  coalition, including the Federation of Young Democrats as well.
Democratic Forum, the main force in the outgoing administration, is  predicted to win between 39 and 45 seats, Gallup said, basing its predictions  on first round voting on May 8 and opinion polls conducted since.
The forum, whose leader and premier Jozsef Antall died last December, has  resigned itself to being in opposition in the new administration.
The socialists and the Free Democrats, headed by 43-year-old economist  Gabor Kuncze, are very close on several foreign policy areas, in particular on  their enthusiasm for Hungarian membership of the European Union and closer  links with NATO.
Both parties have cautioned, however, that it would take them around two  years to bring about a marked improvement in Hungarians' standard of living.
Both Horn and Kuncze have indicated willingness to be appointed prime  minister in a coalition government.
