Northern Yemeni forces stepped up the pressure on  the Aden power base of Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid on Friday and warned  after a first Scud attack that their artillery was now within striking range.
Military spokesmen in Sanaa accused Baid of abandoning Aden to its fate as  northern troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh closed in on the  southern port city, but they gave assurances that civilian areas would not be  targeted.
The vice president, who has accused Saleh of seeking to annex the south,  took refuge on Tuesday in the Hadhramaut province of eastern Yemen, on the  border with Oman, according to informed sources in Aden.
"The flight of Baid, that war criminal, to Hadhramaut is a cowardly act  which reveals the true face of this murderer who has plunged our nation into a  destructive war," the north charged.
"He has abandoned his men without a worry in the world over their fate to  carry his plan for separation."
In the wake of two Scud missile attacks on Aden on Thursday that triggered  panic among the city's more than 500,000 residents, the north said civilians  had nothing to fear from the northern push on Baid's power base.
"Citizens in Aden and all nearby villages and towns should know that the  army of unity does not target civilians and that civilians will not be  harmed," said a spokesman on Sanaa Radio.
He called on southern forces to join ranks with Saleh's army units.
The Scuds, the first fired on Aden by the north since the civil war broke  out on May 5, crashed into the airport and a residential district, wounding  four people, according to hospitals in the city.
"Several military targets in Aden as well as the air base are now within  range of our missiles and artillery," the north warned.
According to the authorities in the capital, the south has fired 21  surface-surface missiles at northern cities, including a Scud attack on Sanaa  which killed 25 people last week.
As warplanes screamed out of Aden airport, rival army units were Friday  positioned at opposite ends of the sprawling southern air base of Al Anad to  the north, said a correspondent at the front.
They traded heavy artillery fire on Thursday, following several clashes in  which northern and southern soldiers have fought hand-to-hand.
On the eastern front, mortar shells fell on the first control post on the  outskirts of Aden, some 10 kilometres (six miles) from the city centre,  journalists said.
A southern source said the policy-making bodies of the Yemen Socialist  Party met late Thursday to finalise plans to set up a High Council of National  Salvation, which he said would function as a kind of government.
Conservative North Yemen and the former Marxist South merged in May 1990  but their armies were never integrated. A political dispute between Baid and  Saleh simmered for months before degenerating into war.
The northerners, ruling out a ceasefire, have demanded that Baid surrender  and stand trial for war crimes.
The UN agency for refugees UNRWA, meanwhile, said it was still trying to  send in food to or evacuate Somalis stranded at a camp near Aden, where at  least 175 refugees were killed in crossfire at the start of the war.
In the latest evacuation of foreigners, 106 employees of the US company  Hunt Oil arrived in Bahrain late Thursday from Sanaa. The Canadian oil firm  Canoxy sent a ship to take out its staff from Aden.
