US businessmen are anxiously awaiting President  Bill Clinton's decision on China's most favored nation (MFN) status in the  next 10 days, fearful of losing a multi-billion dollar market and thousands of  US jobs.
It seems increasingly unlikely that Clinton will carry out his threat of  withdrawing MFN on June 3 because of China's human rights record, disrupting a  40 billion dollar trade relationship.
"I don't think he has much choice" but to renew, "which has been the  weakness of the policy from the beginning; it was not a credible threat," said  Richard Brecher of the US-China Business Council, which represents some 250 US  companies doing business with China.
But US business, which has invested an estimated 7.5 billion dollars in  China, is afraid he may seek to placate the human rights lobby by choosing a  middle road such as limited or targeted sanctions that would spark as much  retaliation from China as outright refusal of MFN.
Businessmen say they share the government's desire to promote human  rights, but argue that the best way to do that is to do business there.
Another concern is that he might impose further conditions next year, with  major businesses saying the threat to withdraw MFN has already affected their  dealings with China in the past 12 months.
The United States runs a huge trade deficit with China, with imports last  year of 31.4 billion dollars, against exports to Beijing of 8.6 billion.
But the Chinese market is a major outlet for key industries such as  aviation, with aircraft sales to China in 1993 totalling almost two billion  dollars, or a quarter of total US exports.
US aircraft maker Boeing, the country's largest single exporter, says that  Clinton's decision this year to condition MFN renewal on an improved human  rights performance has already cost it sales.
When Boeing was negotiating earlier this year to sell 100 planes to China  over several years, the Beijing side instead opted for a one-year commitment  to buy just five aircraft, citing the MFN problem, said John Hayden, the  company's corporate vice president in Washington.
And it is China's state sector that is buying the aircraft and other  big-ticket items that account for the bulk of US exports, so any attempt to  impose partial sanctions would invite retaliation from their best customers.
The Commerce Department estimates that some 160,000 to 180,000 US jobs  depend on exports to China, but the National Association of Manufacturers  (NAM) says the number is probably higher.
The NAM also warns of the hidden costs if Washington withdraws MFN or  imposes sanctions that spark Chinese retaliation in terms of the loss of  potential sales in a fast-expanding market, and the effect on US business  investment and development plans.
The US-China Business Council, which represents about 250 US businesses,  says that if the US-China trade relationship founders, US consumers would pay  14 to 16 billion dollars in higher prices for clothes, shoes, toys and  electronics goods they currently get from China.
But "this money would not flow to American producers," the Council said in  a report urging MFN renewal. "The goods would be produced -- at higher prices  -- elsewhere in Asia or Latin America."
The Council also disputes the argument that sanctions would hurt China far  more than they would hurt the United States because Beijing could not find  another market for exports such as Christmas tree lights, Barbie dolls and  cheap clothes.
"China could readily find alternative markets for much of its exports,  particularly since it can offer major infrastructure, aerospace, and  high-technology purchases in return," the Council said.
"If so, a selective sanctions option could become a trade policy disaster,  as Japan and Europe" along with Canada and Australia "take advantage of  openings created by US foreign policy to displace American products in China."
