The United States has in the past pressed the nuclear issue as critical  for international security because of rising Indian-Pakistani tensions in  Kashmir that it fears could escalate into a nuclear exchange.
Washington supports a regional South Asia plan to freeze India's secret  nuclear weapons program in exchange for a cap on the arsenal Pakistan is  believed to have developed.
Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott went to South Asia to sell the US  plan but met resistance from Pakistan which said it needs its nuclear weapons  to deter an attack by India while India claimed the same defense against China.
Clinton said follow-up talks with India will not attempt to undercut  India's security for the sake of disarmament. He added, "No one should be  asked to put their own security at risk to achieve that."
Rao told Congress Wednesday he supported a global approach to controlling  nuclear weapons proliferation and disarmament but made no reference the US  South Asia plan.
Asked about India becoming a permanent member of the United Nations  Security Council, Clinton said "That is an issue that I think the United  States should keep an open mind on."
The trip by Rao has been billed by both sides as an opportunity to foster  a new, positive relationship that has been strained over the past year.
Rao's address before Congress, the confirmation hearings for  ambassador-designate Frank Wisner Tuesday and his meeting with Clinton and  other cabinet members are all aimed at easing some of those tensions.
India has been miffed over the 18-month delay in naming a US ambassador to  such a key post and over US administration efforts to bypass a congressional  ban and go ahead with the sale of 38 F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan.
Talbott tried to persuade Pakistan in April to accept a verifiable cap on  its nuclear weapons in exchange for a one-time waiver of a ban on the sale of  the jets that Pakistan has already paid for.
Rao met with Defense Secretary William Perry on Wednesday when the prickly  issue of nuclear non-proliferation and the sale of the fighter jets to  Pakistan were discussed.
