President Hafez al-Assad held four hours of talks  Wednesday with US Secretary of State Warren Christopher amid reports Syria had  shown a keen interest in an Israeli offer for a phased withdrawal from the  disputed Golan Heights.
Christopher arrived from Israel and went straight into talks with Assad,  for the second time since Sunday, in an attempt to bridge the gap between the  two enemies.
As the US envoy briefed Assad on his talks with Israeli leaders state-run  Damascus Radio reiterated Syria's refusal to give up an inch of the Golan,  which Israel conquered in the 1967 Middle East war.
It echoed the official Ath-Thawra newspaper which said in an editorial "We  will not accept any Israeli presence on a single inch of the Golan."
"Syria firmly and categorically rejects partial solutions as well as a  phased withdrawal from the Golan," which Israel has proposed, Ath-Thawra said.
"Political flexibility does not mean accepting Israeli conditions," the  daily added.
Israel has offered a withdrawal over five-to-eight years from the plateau  linked to security arrangements, which the initial return of three out of five  Druze villages on the Golan.
But the Washington Post, citing unnamed officials involved in the  mediation between Israel and Syria, said Damascus has shown a keen interest in  an Israeli offer for a three-stage pullout in exchange for peace.
Israel wanted international monitors and electronic devices installed on  the plateau, and a demilitarised zone extending to neighbouring parts of  Syria, the Post said.
Syria responded with considerable interest prompting Christopher's return  to Damascus after his talks in Israel, the paper added.
Christopher said in Israel he would try "to find a common basis between  the parties" during his new talks with Syrian officials and that he had Prime  Minister Yitzhak Rabin's "encouragement" to return to Damascus.
Rabin commented: "If the secretary of state has decided to return this  week to Syria to pursue the negotiations then there is perhaps a glimmer of  hope."
"We have to extract everything we can from this opportunity. I believe  Christopher will find a joint basis for dialogue," he added.
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres spoke of "room for manoeuvre".
The government daily Tishrin called on the United States to play a full  partner role in the Middle East peace process and hoped that Christopher's  would be successful in trying to "salvage the peace process."
Tishrin struck a note of optimism earlier this week by calling for a rapid  Israeli withdrawal from the Golan, urging a "reasonable and acceptable"  pullout timetable.
In Washington US National Security Advisor Anthony Lake said the United  States would seek to compensate Israel for the loss of the strategic plateau,  which commands access to Damascus and northern Israel.
"We will act decisively to bolster Israel's early warning capability and  ability to handle longer-range threats to compensate for strategic advantages  it may choose to give up for peace," Lake said.
He said Washington was ready to participate in security arrangements that  Syria and Israel negotiate, stressing that the United States "does not  underestimate the risks and costs involved in achieving Israeli-Syrian peace."
The Golan, which Israel annexed in 1981, has been the main stumbling block  in Syrian-Israeli negotiations since the launch of the Madrid peace conference  in October 1991.
Israel demands a prior Syrian commitment for total peace before  negotiating the size of any withdrawal from the golan. Syria demands that  Israel first commit itself to quit all the strategic plateau before talking  about the type of peace.
The United States is determined to bridge the gap between the arch rivals  now that it has secured a peace accord between Israel and the PLO for  launching autonomy in Gaza and the West Bank town of Jericho.
Peace talks between Syria and Israel have been suspended since the Hebron  massacre on February 25.
