Palestinian policemen were  deployed Saturday in Jabalia after Israeli troops withdrew under the cover of  night, to the delight of the Gaza refugee camp where the intifada was born.
"Jabalia, the camp of the revolution, has been liberated," cried Awad  al-Mamduh, whose brother was killed in the uprising against Israel's rule of  the Gaza Strip and West Bank.
A new contingent of 240 policemen, recruited from Palestine Liberation  Army (PLA) units in Sudan, marched into the Strip late Saturday from the Rafah  border crossing with Egypt.
At 5 a.m. (0200 GMT), the Jabalia refugees jumped for joy to see that  Israeli troops had just pulled out of the base set up in the heart of the camp  in 1970 as well as from an administration building in the neighbouring village.
As the sun rose, most of the camp's 75,000 residents and the 25,000 in the  village took to the streets to celebrate. A dozen of them scaled the army's  30-metre (yard) tower to hoist the Palestinian red-green-white-black flag.
A four-year-old child, seeing a policeman for the first time, took fright  and burst into tears, "They're not Jews, they're Palestinian soldiers," his  mother reassured him.
As hundreds of people watched from rooftops, women banged on drums and  chanted nationalist songs, a policeman in olive-green uniform saluted and  hugged another child.
Militants of the Fatah Hawks of PLO leader Yasser Arafat fired off  celebratory rounds of gunfire in the air. Even Hamas, the Islamic militants  who oppose the self-rule deal with Israel, shouted slogans to welcome the  police.
"My son didn't give his life for nothing. He died for Palestine, and I'm  so happy that they're gone," said Um Iyad al-Ashkar, wearing a pendant with a  photograph of her son who was killed by Israeli soldiers in February 1988.
"But my joy will not be complete until all the (Jewish) settlers leave our  land and Jerusalem is ours again," she said.
Mamduh voiced pride at Jabalia's long history of resistance. "In 1970, we  started resisting the occupiers. We didn't let up during 80s, and it was here  that the intifada all started."
On December 9, 1987, a day after four Palestinians were run down and  fatally injured by an Israeli truck driver, residents of impoverished Jabalia  took out their fury on the army's base.
A young Palestinian was shot dead and several other deaths followed,  before the uprising spread to the rest of Gaza and the West Bank. Israeli  bullets have claimed the lives of more than 1,250 Palestinians in the intifada.
"Who would have believed that the Israelis would leave our land when only  yesterday they were still hitting us," said Um Said, a 45-year-old woman,  commenting on the last clashes before the police deployment.
During the night, after a HAMAS attack in which two soldiers were shot and  wounded, the army burst into several homes, roughed up five Jabalia residents  with their batons, and fired tear-gas, according to Palestinian sources.
Soldiers took souvenir photographs of each other in action, while  enforcing the last night-time curfew, they said.
With the latest Palestinian deployment, almost 1,500 policemen have now  entered the Strip, where the south of the territory has now been completely  evacuated by the army.
After police took over the West Bank town of Jericho on Friday, the rest  of Gaza is to be handed over by next Wednesday.
