"The Flintstones," a live-action version of the  prehistoric cartoon cave family, rocked the box office over the long US  Memorial Day weekend with record receipts topping 37 million dollars.
According to Universal Pictures' estimates, the antics of Fred Flintstone  and his sidekick Barney Rubble in the town of Bedrock brought in 37.5 million  dollars over four days on the long weekend, smashing the previous record of  37.03 million dollars set in 1989 by "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade."
Jon Goodman stars as caveman Fred in the adaptation of the popular  Hanna-Barbera cartoon.
"The Flintstones" had strong competition in the opening salvo of the  summer blockbuster wars: "Maverick," with Mel Gibson as the Western gambler in  the remake of the old television series, and "Beverly Hills Cop III," with  Eddie Murphy.
The trio is the vanguard of some 60 films due for release between Memorial  Day and Labor Day, on September 3.
Together all three brought in the second-highest box office receipts for  the Friday through Monday weekend.
"Maverick" was the runner-up with 18 million dollars in tickets on its  second weekend, and 41.3 million dollars in 10 days; followed by "Beverly  Hills Cop III," 15.5 million dollars for the weekend, and 18.5 million dollars  in five days.
The Memorial Day weekend record was in 1992, led by "Lethal Weapon III"  and the last "Alien" sequel earned a record 93.5 million dollars, compared  with 91.8 million dollars this year.
"We're very elated," said Universal spokesman Alan Sutton of "The  Flintstones"' success. "It's terrific news not only for Universal, but for the  industry in general. It bodes very well for a good summer."
The weekend record would have been crushed if "Beverly Hills Cop III" had  not had relatively disappointing results at the box office, compared to the  original movie's 33 million dollars in sales in 1987.
But the hot summer market beckons, with a staggering list of heavyweights  ready to fight for the spoils of Hollywood's most lucrative season. The US  film industry sells about 40 percent of its annual tickets in the three-month  season.
Throwing the gantlet at the dinosaurs of "Jurassic Park," the summer 1993  all-time world record giant with 870 million dollars in sales, Walt Disney  will unleash "The Lion King," an animated film spectacular about a young cub's  rise to rule the African jungle.
Emotional rollercoaster fans will be treated to werewolf love story "Wolf,"  with Jack Nicholson in the title role, and spy flick "True Lies," starring  Arnold Schwarzenegger.
The audience for Hollywood-style romance, currently served by Andy Garcia  in "When a Man Loves a Woman," will get Julia Roberts and Nick Nolte in the  comedy adventure, "I Love Trouble."
But the tide of stars and big-budget films could turn against the major  film companies, which need to bring in five billion dollars in 1994, just like  last year.
With budgets often topping 40 million dollars, not counting the enormous  marketing campaigns, films need the widest distribution possible or risk  disappearing on the roughly 25,000 screens in the United States.
Under such fierce competition for ever-thinner profit margins, some films  will be swallowed up immediately by those films with bigger box-office  openings.
"Hollywood is self-destructing by opening too many big movies in the  summer," Universal chief Tom Pollock was quoted in last week's Newsweek  magazine.
In the same article, Barry London, Paramount's president of distribution,  said that failures would arise from "simple mathematics."
"You take the number of picutres by the numer of screens you need -- and  you know it's not going to work," he said.
