Angered by a sharp rise in anti-government street  protests and alarmed by a new boldness shown by pro-North Korea radicals, the  South Korean government is warning it may crack down on leftists.
The warning came Thursday after demonstrators earlier in the week sang a  North-South Korea reunification song and shouted anti-American slogans at mass  demonstrations in South Korea's southwestern city of Kwangju.
There was nothing new or unusual in that. But at a simultaneous sympathy  rally in the North Korean capital of Pyongyang, the slogans were almost  identical.
The North also used the occasion to present its position at a delicate  stage of its tense nuclear standoff with Seoul and Washington.
Adding to the concerns are widespread but unconfirmed reports that the  Korean Federation of University Councils has elaborate plans for its second  anniversary next week.
They reportedly include contacting the North by phone, erecting a mock  US-missile base and building a mini-copy of the Juche (self-reliance) tower  built by North Korean President Kim Il-Sung.
Thursday's warning, from the prosecutor general's office after what it  described as an "urgent meeting," said specifically that it would launch an  investigation into the federation.
The federation, like most North and South Koreans, espouses reunification  of the Korean peninsula, divided by one of the last barriers of the Cold War,  but is fractured into many factions, the vast majority of them moderate.
Sources say the government feels -- after a year in which  dissident-turned-President Kim Young-Sam's government was basking in student  approval of his determined drive to weed out corruption in the military --  that the minority pro-North radicals are, for whatever reason, going for  broke.
Only one organisation, the Pan-National Students Alliance for National  Reunification, which claims membership in the South, the North and overseas,  is officially classified as "an organisation benefiting the enemy."
But the prosecutors office said Thursday arrest warrants had been issued  for two federation leaders, adding that they believed they also belonged to  the leadership of the outlawed alliance.
The warning and the order for police nationwide to search for the two was  interpreted here by most as a warning to moderates.
"For the bulk of the students it is a warning rather than a crackdown,"  said one Korean familiar with the student movement in South Korea. "It is  saying disassociate yourselves from the hard-core pro-North."
To back the warning, daily newspapers Thursday and Friday ran reports  saying that 2,774 street demonstrations had been held so far this year, more  than double the number last year.
Many of the protests, and the most violent, were connected to opening of  the country's rice market to imports, but the figures showed that the Kim  Young-Sam government had outlived its honeymoon.
But ironically Friday newspapers carried apparently pre-sanctioned  photographs of artists from North and South Korea -- which are still  technically at war -- clasping hands in Beijing.
The group, all of whom were beaming, were announcing plans to hold a joint  art exhibition, first in Japan and then in Seoul.
