Israeli undercover troops shot  dead two wanted Moslem fundamentalists just north of Jerusalem on Tuesday,  witnesses and military officials said.
The officials said two senior members of the Islamic Resistance Movement  HAMAS died in a security service operation on the West Bank.
One was named as Yussef Najji Abu Hmeid, 24, who was believed to have  lured a Shin Beth intelligence agent to his death a few miles to the north  near Ramallah on February 13, 1994.
The HAMAS armed wing Ezzedin al-Kassam claimed responsibility for the  ambush which left two other agents wounded.
Najji, from the Ramallah refugee camp of Amari, was a former Shin Beth  collaborator. The officials said he was armed and the troops thus opened fire.
But Palestinian witnesses described the operation as a cold-blooded  killing of apparently unarmed men.
As they got off a bus in the Ar-Ram district, a Ford transit van bearing  an Israeli flag pulled up close-by, Palestinian witnesses told AFP.
Two Israeli soldiers in jeans and T-shirts jumped out of the van, hailed  the Palestinians and opened fire as they turned round.
The Israelis climbed back into the van where three colleagues waited and  sped off, the witnesses said.
"The van drove off towards an Israeli military base," said eye-witness  Adel Abu Sniya, 34 ans.
Uniformed Israeli troops carried off the two corpses before ambulances  arrived.
"A few minutes later soldiers and border police in jeeps arrived. They  took the bodies and quickly cleaned up before pulling out."
However an AFP reporter watched Palestinians picking through pieces of  flesh and skull as well as bullet casings and white surgical gloves which were  strewn around.
Their deaths brought to 1,275 the number of Palestinians shot by Israeli  bullets since the uprising against Israeli rule began in December 1987.
Meanwhile on the Gaza Strip, Palestinians opened fire on an Israeli army  post near the settlement of Ganei Tal, Palestinian sources said.
No one was reported injured.
The gunmen drove off into Khan Yunes, which is under Palestinian police  control.
