Racial prejudice and dire predictions about  floods of refugees from neighboring Haiti have become major themes in the  closing hours of the Dominican Republic's presidential elections.
In a final push before Monday's elections, President Joaquin Balaguer is  trumpeting his own birth in the Dominican Republic and portraying his black  opponent, Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, as a voodoo practitioner.
Anonymous fliers have been circulated saying Pena Gomez, the chief rival  for the presidency, is the "son of Haitians."
And Balaguer's Christian Social Reformist Party has said that Pena Gomez,  who represents the Democratic Revolutionary Party, plans to open refugee camps  for Haitians in hopes of ingratiating himself with the United States.
Another presidential candidate is claiming that the ruling powers of the  Dominican Republic want to use cheap Haitian labor at the cost of jobs for  their own people.
Haiti is both scorned and feared in the Dominican Republic, which shares  the eastern half of the Caribbean island of Hispaniola.
The reasons for this are both racial and economic.
Haiti is overwhelmingly black, while the Dominican Republic is 75 percent  mulatto, 15 percent white and 10 percent black. But the 87-year-old Balaguer  is also playing on Dominicans' fears that Haitians fleeing their impoverished  country will flood across the border.
The fear is real in this country, which is home to about 500,000 illegal  Haitian immigrants and where about 30 percent of the population is unemployed.
In a recent speech, Balaguer attacked Pena Gomez without naming him,  saying that "from outside or inside the government I will also serve the  country because I am proud of having been born in the Dominican Republic."
A third candidate, Jacobo Majutla of the Independent Revolutionary Party,  claimed the "oligarchy of the country prefers to hire Haitians for  agricultural and (sugar) cane-cutting work because it is cheaper and this  hurts our nation."
Balaguer, who is seeking his seventh term in office, is a wily campaigner  and despite being almost blind enjoys considerable support.
Pena Gomez has accused Balaguer of planning to take the vote by fraud if  necessary.
On Saturday he vowed he would "bury" his rival in the ballot box. "For  them it is intolerable that a citizen of color could reach the presidency,"  Pena Gomez said in a speech to a crowd of supporters, but "with a wave of  votes we are going to bury forever 'Balaguerismo.'"
All the presidential contenders have promised to turn to the needs of the  poorest in this country of seven million people, especially bringing clean  water, health care and public transport.
Around 30 people have died in political violence during street protests  and rallies for the poll. But there were no deaths in the last week of  campaigning and both Balaguer and Pena Gomez are urging peace.
Per capital income is about 790 dollars annually while about 20 percent of  the population is illiterate. Neighboring Haiti is the poorest country in the  western hemisphere.
