Lebanon on Tuesday lodged a protest with the United  Nations over Israel's kidnapping of a Moslem fundamentalist guerrilla chief,  Foreign Minister Fares Bweiz said.
The protest note charged that Israel violated Lebanese sovereignty,  jeopardised its security and carried out an "act of piracy" when it abducted  Shiite Moslem leader Mustafa Dirani on Saturday, Bweiz said.
A senior foreign ministry official said Lebanon also called on Israel to  release Dirani and said Beirut had the right to call for a Security Council  meeting.
Dirani, a leader of the Resistance of the Faithful, was snatched from his  home in the Syrian-controlled Bekaa Valley in a slick pre-dawn operation by  airborne Israeli commandos.
Israel holds Dirani responsible for the capture of missing airman Ron  Arad, whose plane was shot down over south Lebanon during a bombing raid of  Palestinian refugee camps in 1986.
Lebanese Prime Minister Rafic Hariri on Tuesday denounced the abduction as  "an act of piracy and terrorism which runs contrary to international law and   proves that Israel is not serious in the search for peace."
Bweiz charged on Monday that the abduction was a blow to the Middle East  peace process.
Lebanon and Israel have been involved in peace negotiations since October  1991.
Dirani, who is known by the alias Abu Ali, was a former security chief for  the Shiite Moslem Amal militia until 1988 when he joined the Iranian-backed  Hezbollah before setting up his own faction.
But another leader of the Resistance of the Faithful, Zakariya Hamzeh said  on Monday that Dirani "had no further involvement" with Arad since he left  Amal.
Hezbollah vowed meanwhile to widen its scope of attacks on Israel and  "make it cry" in retaliation for the abduction.
Hezbollah secretary general Hassan Nasrallah told a press conference: "The  confrontation with Israel is no longer limited to a specific geographical  location (because) the enemy has chosen to widen the scope of confrontation.
"The enemy has to assume its responsibilities because the resistance  fighters will retaliate from the usual places and unexpected ones," Nasrallah  said.
Nasrallah said Dirani's abduction was a painful blow to anti-Israeli  fighters.
"Israel has made us cry but we promise to make it cry even more," he said.
"The extent of our plans and our retaliation must be as big as the  operation itself," Nasrallah said, calling on the Lebanese authorities not to  confine Hezbollah's anti-Israeli attacks to south Lebanon.
Nasrallah charged that Dirani's abduction was aimed at crushing  anti-Israeli resistance in Lebanon as well as stability in the country and the  region.
The Lebanese government has recognised Hezbollah's right to fight Israeli  occupation of a "security zone" on the international border as long as its  attacks and armed presence are confined to south Lebanon.
Israel launched a seven-day blitz of south Lebanon to stop Katyusha rocket  attacks on its north last July, killing 132 people and forcing half a million  people to flee south Lebanon.
The operation ended with an understanding between Israel, Lebanon and  Syria to halt Hezbollah rocket attacks on northern Israel in exchange for an  agreement to refrain from further bombing of inhabited areas of Lebanon.
