Here is the text of President Bill Clinton's  announcement Thursday on the renewal of China's most favored nation trading  status despite concerns over its human rights record:
"Today I would like to announce a series of important decisions regarding  the United States' policy toward China.
"Our relationship with China is important to all Americans. We have  significant interests in what happens there and what happens between us.
"China has an atomic arsenal and a vote and a veto in the U.N. Security  Council. It is a major factor in Asian and global security. We share important  interests, such as in a nuclear-free Korean peninsula and in sustaining the  global environment. China is also the world's fastest-growing economy. Over  eight billion dollars of United States exports to China last year supported  over 150,000 American jobs.
"I have received Secretary Christopher's letter recommending, as required  by last year's executive order -- reporting to me on the conditions in that  executive order. He has reached a conclusion with which I agree, that the  Chinese did not achieve overall significant progress in all the areas outlined  in the executive order relating to human rights, even though clearly there was  progress made in important areas, including the resolution of all emigration  cases, the establishment of a memorandum of understanding with regard to how  prison labor issues would be resolved, the adherence to the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights, and other issues.
"Nevertheless, serious human rights abuses continue in China, including  the arrest and detention of those who peacefully voice their opinions and the  repression of Tibet's religious and cultural traditions.
"The question for us now is, given the fact that there has been some  progress but that not all the requirements of the executive order were met,  how can we best advance the cause of human rights and the other profound  interests the United States has in our relationship with China?"
