Six Gulf Arab states celebrated the 13th  anniversary of their alliance on Wednesday still struggling to overcome  obstacles on the road to a European-style economic union.
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Oman and the United Arab Emirates  (UAE) had acknowledged those obstacles when they signed an agreement to set up  a common market two years after they created their Gulf Cooperation Council  (GCC) in Abu Dhabi on May 25, 1981.
"We all knew full economic integration is not easy and will face problems.  But we also realised it is not impossible," a senior GCC official told AFP.
"That is why we are treading carefully in this direction. We have missed  the deadlines for several economic agreements because we are moving very  slowly. But we believe this is a realistic approach that will guarantee the  success of economic merger unlike other experiences in the Arab world."
While they have made headway in some fields, GCC states are still far  apart in others due to differences on implementation.
The differences were underscored most in their accord to unify customs  tariffs. They have not only missed the five-year target in 1988 but  differences have even widened, especially on the level of the new tariff.
Experts say a customs union is essential for the common market and any  delay in tariff unification will only hold up plans for such a market.
The only progress they have made is a compromise on an eight-to-10 percent  tariff, half-way between the existing tariffs.
But members which enforce protectionism like Saudi Arabia are demanding  exemptions, while Bahrain wants compensation for lowering its tariff since  taxes are its main source of income.
"It is natural to have differences. There were differences within the  European Union, which took decades to reach such a stage. I think we will  succeed but we need time," said the GCC official, who requested anonymity.
A Gulf common market will create the largest economic bloc in the Middle  East, with its combined Gross Domestic Product (GDP) standing at 203 billion  dollars in 1992, nearly 45 percent of the total Arab GDP.
It will also be the leading oil bloc in the world, with production of  around 13 million barrels per day (bpd) and reserves of 470 billion barrels,  more than 40 percent of the total world proven crude reserves.
Production is projected to jump to nearly 20 million bpd by the year 2000  as most GCC members have been engaged in projects to boost capacity to face  growing demand.
Their exports, mostly oil and gas, also accounted for more than 70 percent    of the total Arab exports of 135 billion dollars, and imports for nearly 65  percent of the Arab imports of 123 billion dollars.
Under the 1983 agreement for the common market, GCC states should also  tear down customs barriers between them, align their currencies, open up their  stock markets and allow each others to set up bank branches.
Some of them have already given limited access to their stock markets  while two of them, Kuwait and Bahrain, have agreed to allow all GCC citizens  to enter on identity cards.
GCC investors have also been permitted to own property and set up their  own businesses in some sectors.
But in banking, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait are still reluctant to allow other  members to set up branches in their countries, offering instead joint banking  ventures.
The six members are also still haggling on aligning their currencies as  some members refuse to delink their units from the US dollar.
But they have agreed in principle on a compromise for pegging their  currencies to a basket of currencies, in which the US dollar will keep the  upper hand.
