The president of the Schneider SA, one of  France's biggest industrial groups, was charged with fraud and taken to prison  at dawn here on Friday to the astonishment of the company.
In Paris, Schneider shares were suspended and then fell by 6.12 percent to  388 francs after the group said that its president, Didier Pineau-Valencienne,  had been charged with forgery, using false documents, fraud, false accounting  and breach or confidence.
Schneider is the 16th-biggest French industrial group and is the world  leader in industrial electrical installations.
The charges against Valencienne, the result of a complex investigation in  Belgium, relate to a 1992 takeover bid by Schneider for two Belgian finance  companies, Cofimines and Cofibel, Schneider said in Paris.
Minority shareholders in the two Belgian companies challenged the bids,  asserting that the funds to be used in the purchase could be illicit.
But they later withdrew their complaint and the acquisitions were  completed last December -- after Schneider raised its bid three times publicly  denied allegations that funds from a drug-money laundering operation were  involved.
Sources close to Pineau-Valencienne said he had gone voluntarily to  Brussels on Thursday and had answered questions from financial inspectors from  10:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m. (eds correct) local time.
Their questions had gone far beyond the purchase of the Cofimines and  Cofibel, extending to the names of accountants in second-tier subsidiaries.
He thought that their questioning was over but then had to face questions  from the investigating magistrate from 11:00 p.m. until 5:30 a.m., when he was  charged and taken into custody.
He had never expected to be held and the decision to arrest him in the  early hours of the morning had the air of an "ambush", these sources  complained, saying that minority shareholders had withdrawn their complaint  but the magistrate had pressed ahead.
Judicial authorities here provided no details of the case beyond stating  that Pineau-Valencienne was being held and listing the charges.
But Schneider said that as a result of a complaint by minority  shareholders, he was accused of having managed the financial subsidiaries to  their detriment.
Rejecting the charges, Schneider said that it had "always acted out of  respect for the interests of all shareholders in these companies, including  when bids for these companies were made in 1992."
Management and staff were "profoundly indignant and stupefied" by the  accusations.
He had been held under an arrest warrant, equivalent to a five-day  detention order, and the company could not appeal until Wednesday.
The prosecutor here had opened an enquiry last autumn in response to civil  and criminal complainst by the minority shareholders that they had suffered  discrimination from irregularities in the bid.
They also complained that the two target companies had brought a Swiss  company Fimo A.G. into the capital of a Belgian company which they controlled,  PB Finances.
They alleged that Fimo was connected with the laundering of funds of  doubtful origin. In October Schneider "categorically" denied that it was  involved with a network laundering drug money.
