The United Nations suspended Sunday its evacuation  of civilians from Kigali as fighting continued to rage in the capital where  six children were wounded overnight when a mortar hit their orphanage, a UN  spokesman said.
In Geneva, the International Committee of the Red Cross said some 400,000  Rwandans were fleeing the fighting in the capital: "They have nothing to eat  and nothing to drink. It is a very grave situation," said ICRC spokesman Tony  Burgener.
According to information received by the United Nations in Kigali, large  numbers of soldiers from Hutu-dominated army have also fallen back to the  south.
Sporadic battles between the Tutsi-led Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) and  mainly Hutu forces loyal to the government erupted in the city Sunday  afternoon forcing UN troops to halt the evacuation operation, said Abdul  Kabia, contacted by telephone from Nairobi.
A UN convoy carrying evacuees came under fire on Saturday near Kadhafi  roundabout, northwest of Kigali, where fighting raged, but nobody was hurt,  Kabia said.
UN troops successfully tranferred more than 1,000 people from both Hutu  and Tutsi communities to safer areas outside Kigali on Friday and Saturday.
The soldiers planned to continue the operation on Monday if rebels and  government forces guaranteed safe passage for UN convoys, Kabia said.
RPF fighters maintained their advance west and southwards from Kigali  towards the town ot Gitarama, where the self-styled governement is based.  Gitarama is 40 kilometres (25 miles), southwest of the capital.
Heavy fighting continued to rage around the northern town of Ruhengeri,  Kabia said.
The orphanage struck overnight was run by a Frenchman who refused to leave  when foreigners evacuated last month. It was partially demolished in the  attack, forcing the transfer of 120 orphans to another building, Kabia said.
UN military sources said the shell was possibly fired from a rebel  position in the city.
UN-sponsored ceasefire talks between rebels and the Rwandan armed forces   were scheduled to open in Kigali on Monday, Kabia said, chaired by the deputy  commander of the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda (UNAMIR) Brigadier-General  Henry Anyidoho.
It was not immediately clear who would represent rebel and government  sides.
Kabia warned that some 35,000 displaced people in Kigali were on the verge  of starvation because no relief supplies have arrived in the city during the  past couple of days.
"The situation is so desperate that UN troops have been forced to share  their rations of food and water with the most needy women and children," he  said.
"I presume the situation is worse outside Kigali," he added, launching an  appeal to international relief agencies to send in food.
The UN World Food Programme said on Saturday that there were an estimated  1.6 million displaced people in desparate need of food aid inside Rwanda.
Rwanda plunged back into turmoil a day after President Juvenal  Habyarimana, a Hutu, was killed in a suspected rocket attack on his plane on  April 6.
An estimated 200,000 to half a million people have been butchered in the  ensuing wholesale slaughter, which targetted the minority Tutsis but also Hutu  opponents of the late president.
The RPF launched an offensive against government troops and Hutu militia,  saying they wanted to stop the massacres and "cripple the war machinery  responsible for killings."
