The United Nations suspended all relief operations  in Rwanda's embattled capital Kigali after a Senegalese peacekeeper was killed  in a shell blast Tuesday, UN officials said.
"I have ordered that we suspend all operations immediately until the  situation stabilises," deputy UN force commander Brigadier Henry Anyidoho said.
Among the operations suspended indefinitely as rebel and army gunners  pounded each other were the evacuation of civilians trapped behind the battle  lines and food distribution to needy civilians.
The order nevertheless did not affect UN flights to the airport, nor a  mission to investigate reports of a new atrocity in the Rwandan bloodbath from  aid workers who said 500 people were massacred this week in the  government-held town of Kabgayi.
Anyidoho said the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) appeared to have  fired the shell that killed Captain Mbaye Diagne when it landed near his car  close to an army checkpoint in central Kigali.
"From the information I have received from the scene, the shell came from  the RPF side," Anyidoho said.
UN civilian officials described Diagne as a hero who had saved more than  100 lives, repeatedly exposing himself to danger to rescue Rwandan civilians  and UN staff.
Diagne, who left a wife and two children, was the 12th UN soldier killed  in Rwanda since the small central African country was engulfed in a bloodbath  after the April 6 death of president Juvenal Habyarimana. He died a day after  rebel and army commanders promised to cooperate with the UN to continue  humanitarian and evacuation operations.
"If there is a hero in UNAMIR (the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda), he  was it," said a UN civilian official who declined to be named. Diagne, who  arrived in Rwanda as part of an African peacekeeping force in July and was  later transferred to the UN, died almost instantly. Minutes after the blast,  his body sat slumped in the driver's seat of his jeep, blood oozing from the  side of his neck.
"He was always out in the thick of it," said a Senegalese comrade. "You  see what a dirty job we have to do, but there aren't enough of us and we need  heavy equipment."
Some 400 UN soldiers in Kigali are to be reinforced by 5,500 new troops,  ordered in by the Security Council. But there is no sign of the new soldiers  as rich Western countries are reluctant to fund the African troops promised,  UN officials said.
The United Nations withdrew all but 400 of its 2,500 peacekeepers from  Rwanda after 10 Belgian soldiers were killed last month. A Ghanaian soldier  has also since been killed when a shell slammed into the Amahoro stadium where  thousands of terrified refuge have sought refuge and are being fed.
UN military commander General Romeo Dallaire wiped tears from his eyes as  he watched Diagne's body, wrapped in a blue and white UN flag, being carried  aboard a UN C-130 transport plane to be flown to the Kenyan capital Nairobi  and then home.
Grim-faced UN soldiers from Senegal, Ghana, Mali, Uruguay and Canada,  wearing blue berets and flak jackets, saluted as the plane took off from  Kigali airport after a brief ceremony and Moslem prayers.
UNAMIR's executive-director Abdul Kabia meanwhile said UN military  observers had left for Kabgayi, 60 kilometres (35 miles) south of the capital,  to investigate reports that 500 civilians were slaughtered there last weekend.
UN military sources said the observers came under fire, and it was unclear  whether they had reached Kabgayi. Up to half a million Rwandans, mostly  minority Tutsis, have been butchered in seven weeks of carnage blamed largely  on pro-government Hutu militias, and another half million have fled to  neighbouring countries.
"If the massacre in Kabgayi is confirmed, UNAMIR condemns such atrocities  and calls on both sides to respect and protect civilians," Kabia said.
Army and rebel commanders are to meet Thursday for a second round of  UN-brokered ceasefire talks, but meanwhile the rebels are pressing their  offensive against battered government forces in Kigali, UN military sources  said.
The rebels hold well over half the city, and are closing in on Gitarama,  40 kilometres (25 miles) southwest of Kigali, where the self-proclaimed  interim government fled last month.
Rebels are within 10 kilometres (six miles) of Gitarama on two sides, and  have cut the government's possible escape route southwards to the town of  Butare, the sources said.
