In 1944, when Rene Dussaq parachuted into  occupied France for an advance mission two weeks ahead of D-Day, he had no  idea how he would be received.
Fifty years later, Dussaq plans another jump along with other combat  veterans to mark the 50th anniversary of the allied landing in Normandy.
"This time, I'm sure I will be greeted by friends," he said in an  interview at his home in the southern California commuity of Encino.
Dussaq, trim and tanned at 83, will be among the World War II veterans  seeking to re-live their glory by parachuting June 5 into Sainte-Mere-Eglise,  the first town liberated in France.
Despite an old war wound that has weakened one of his knees, the son of a  Cuban diplomat of Basque origin raised in Switzerland said he is ready for the  exploit.
"You have to count on a little luck," said Dussaq, who will be among an  estimated 40 aging veterans who plan to parachute into Sainte-Mere-Eglise for  the anniversary celebration.
Dussaq was a Hollywood stuntman and diver in the 1930s, and when the  United States entered the war he became an intelligence officer for the US  101st Airborne division.
He parachuted into Chateauroux in central France May 22, 1944 to help  teach train members of the Resistance in using weapons that would be dropped  by the Allies.
"I jumped alone at night, in civilian clothes, from a (British)  Lancaster," said Dussaq, who carried false papers identifying him as Alexandre  Lacoste, a physical education instructor.
He earned the nickname "captain Bazooka" in the Resistance, and eventually  became part of the Free French forces under Charles de Gaulle. He was captured  by the Gestapo, and escaped by jumping off a train.
At the end of the war he worked for the Office of Stratagic Services  (OSS), the forerunner to the CIA. In 1945 he fought with Basque forces  opposing the Spanish government of Francisco Franco.
After the war he worked for the FBI in southern California, and also  worked for the US government photographing nuclear tests on Bikini atoll in  the Pacific. He returned to active duty for the the United States in the  Korean War. In 1954, he left the military and began a career in insurance.
"I'm jumping to honor the memory of the dead," he said. "The French people  have thanked me so much. Now it's my turn to thank them."
