A project to establish a no-hunting whale sanctuary  in the Antarctic is likely to be adopted during the upcoming meeting of the  International Whaling Commission (IWC) in Mexico, the environmental  organization Greenpeace said Sunday.
The project, proposed by France in 1992, was defeated during the IWC  meeting in Japan last year due to opposition by several of the 31 whaling  nations involved, including Russia, Japan, Chili and Norway. Some countries  also abstained from the vote at the time.
To secure the sanctuary the IWC needs a favorable vote by three quarters  of its members.
But Greenpeace officials said Sunday they were "practically certain" that  the project would be adopted at the IWC weeklong meeting beginning Monday as  several countries, including Russia, Chili and Denmark, appear to have dropped  their opposition.
Russia, a major whaling nation that caters to the Japanese market,  indicated in February that it no longer opposed the scheme. The announcement  prompted the IWC to state that the sanctuary "was not meeting with any major  opposition."
But two heavyweights -- Japan and Norway -- remain opposed to the  sanctuary in the southern ocean.
The head of the Japanese delegation to the meeting in Mexico declared  recently that Tokyo "would do its utmost to block the proposal," which it  considers is "scientifically unfounded."
He said Japan may "reconsider" its relations with the IWC if the project  is adopted.
Japan also wants the current moratorium on whaling to be abolished. The  moratorium was adopted in 1982 and began in 1986.
Environmentalists, however, are seeking to extend the moratorium which  they say should be reinforced by the creation of the sanctuary in the southern  ocean.
The sanctuary is aimed at protecting the whale population south of the  40th parallel for a 10-year-period that would be renewable.
A whaling ban in that region would slash whale hunting by 80 percent  worldwide, according to the Europe Conservation organization.
The organization added that the Antarctic sanctuary would allow whales to  increase their population, which is currently growing at barely eight percent  of its maximum potential.
Several other items are to be discussed during the IWC meeting in Mexico,   including an extension of the 1982 moratorium linked to a compromise agreement  that would see the IWC allocate quotas for each whaling nation, as Norway is  demanding.
The IWC is also to consider the effect of the growing multi-million-dollar  whale-watching industry.
