Forty-nine Vietnamese Buddhists have threatened to  burn themselves alive to protest government persecution despite an appeal  against self-immolations from their spiritual leader, according to a statement  from a dissident Buddhist church released Monday.
The monks, nuns and lay-people have written to the Venerable Thich Huyen  Quang, leader of the United Buddhist Church of Vietnam (UBVC), to ask his  blessing for the protest suicides, the church's Paris bureau said in the  statement.
The bureau said the 49 planned to carry out the self-immolations on the  Vesak festival on Wednesday that marks the anniversary of Buddha's birth.
One monk said he wanted his body to "become a torch that will dissipate  obscurity and enlighten the path of our government leaders."
But Quang, currently believed to be under house arrest in central Vietnam,  has appealed in a letter to four imprisoned monks not to die by setting  themselves alight, a traditional form of protest by monks that rocked the  South Vietnamese government during the 1960s.
Quang told the monks, whom the church says are currently in their seventh  week of a hunger strike at the Ba Sao re-education camp, to preserve their  strength "to continue the struggle for the UBCV and religious freedom.
"The church is deeply moved by your resolve but nevertheless implores you  to refrain from this act of finality which would cause such affliction to us  all," the information bureau quoted Quang as saying.
The monks are being force-fed, according to the statement, that added that   political prisoners in the camp had begun a hungerstrike in solidarity.
Other monks from the Linh Mu Pagoda in the former Imperial capital of Hue  were refused access to the prisoners when they tried to visit last week, the  statement said.
Vietnam's Foreign Ministry has denied that the monks, arrested a year ago  for "disturbing public order" are on hunger strike or that Quang is under  house arrest.
However the government refused access to observers or foreign defence  lawyers at the monks' trials and have not responded to an appeal by the UBCV  to allow visits by representatives of the United Nations or the International  Committee for the Red Cross.
The UBCV, which claims a tradition going back 2,000 years, has refused to  bow to government demands that it join a Communist Party-backed umbrella  group, which the church claims is used to control religious activities.
Vietnam has repeatedly denied that it oppresses religions, pointing to the  renovation of pagodas and the rising number of Buddhist monks and nuns.
But the UBCV, which has a long record of opposing government interference  in religion, has called on its followers to step up its struggle for religious  freedom.
In a message released earlier this week, Quang said "concrete proof" of  the lack of religious freedom in Vietnam was the ban on the UBVC.
"The authorities have stepped up their repression of the UBVC, harassing  and imprisoning Buddhist dignitaries and followers," Quang said.
