UN envoy Yasushi Akashi has invited the three  warring parties in Bosnia to fresh talks in Geneva next week in an "important"  new diplomatic drive to broker a ceasefire, the UN Protection Force said  Saturday.
The talks, also to be attended by international mediators Lord Owen and  Thorvald Stoltenberg, will concentrate uniquely on military issues, in the  wake of a call by Akashi last week for an "immediate cessation of hostilities."
An UNPROFOR statement noted that at that time Akashi had described his  call as an "important initiative." It added that US special envoy Charles  Redman and his Russian counterpart Vitaly Churkin have also been invited to  attend.
The talks are scheduled for next Thursday and Friday. The UNPROFOR  statement did not specify whether the warring parties -- Bosnian Croats,  Moslems and Serbs -- had accepted the invitation.
"Next week's meeting builds on the .... initiative of 21 May putting  forward a framework for an immediate cessation of hostilities between the  parties," the statement said.
The May 21 initiative was made directly by Akashi to Bosnian President  Alija Izetbegovic and Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic.
In particular the initiative proposed measures "including provision for  the disengagement of forces and the interpositioning of UNPROFOR troops  between the forces, the withdrawal, or storage under UNPROFOR control, of  heavy weapons."
It also proposed "unrestricted freedom of movement for all UNPROFOR, UNHCR  and humanitarian agencies, the release of all prisoners of war, and the  establishment of Joint Commissions."
Akashi will be accompanied in Geneva by UNPROFOR commander for  ex-Yugoslavia Lieutenant General Bertrand de Lapresle, and the UNPROFOR  commander in Bosnia-Hercegovina, Lieutenant General Sir Michael Rose, the  statement added.
The announcement comes after France hosted two-day talks between the  so-called contact group on Bosnia-Hercegovina -- the European Union, Russia  and the United States -- and Bosnian Croats, Moslems and Serbs Wednesday and  Thursday in the Alpine hideaway of Talloires, not far from Geneva.
The session reached no apparent agreement, but another round was scheduled  in the French resort town on June 6 and 7.
The contact group negotiators tried in vain to get the factions to agree  to a four-month truce and to accept a plan for partition that would give 51  percent of territory to a Croat-Moslem federation and 49 percent to the Serbs.
On Thursday a diplomatic source said that the next round of peace talks  between the republic's warring parties and the four-way international contact  group will take place June 6 and 7 in Talloires.
The call for new talks came amid continued fighting in Bosnia. On Friday  heavy shelling, reportedly Serb, killed one civilian and injured two others in  the northern Bosnian town of Gradacac, according to UNPROFOR officials.
Tanjug news agency in Belgrade said one person died and 15 others were  wounded Saturday by artillery shells fired by Croat forces against  Serb-controlled Brcko in northern Bosnia.
Also Saturday, Bosnian army chief General Rasim Delic said in a newspaper  interview that his forces had created the conditions needed to liberate a  number of towns.
Listing a number of Serb-held towns which were being targetted, he told  the weekly Ljiljan: "Our army is ready for this task, that is why I am not  hiding it."
Also Saturday, a convoy of five buses and two UN lorries, carrying a total  of 241 people left Sarajevo en route for Belgrade, according to witnesses at  the scene. The evacuees were mostly elderly and sick Serbs.
