An envoy from breakaway south Yemen said on  Sunday he expected the United Nations Security Council to call for a ceasefire  in the next few days.
"I expect the Security Council to discuss the Yemeni problem in the next  few days and to issue a resolution calling for a ceasefire," the envoy, Haidar  Abu Bakr al-Attas, told AFP before flying to Kuwait.
"The resolution will be binding to all parties and we are ready to stick  to it. I think it is in the interest of the Yemeni people to halt the war," he  said.
Attas, envoy of southern leader Ali Salim al-Baid who proclaimed a  separate state on May 21, met United Arab Emirates (UAE) President Sheikh  Zayed ibn Sultan al-Nahayan and briefed him on the four-week war.
The official news agency WAM said he expressed appreciation of the UAE  leaders role to stop hostilities between the south and the north.
Attas, refered to by WAM as envoy of President Baid, has also visited  Saudi Arabia, Syria and other Arab states and will fly to Bahrain after  Kuwait. Sources close to him said he might later go to Aden.
Attas's comments coincided with press statements by UN Secretary General  Boutros Boutros Ghali that he would send an envoy to Yemen after a ceasefire  to help reconcile warring parties and restore unity.
The secretary general said contacts were underway among Security Council  members as well as with Arab countries involved in Yemeni mediation to discuss  the civil strife and issue a resolution on a ceasefire.
"I hope the security council will issue a resolution calling on the Yemeni  parties to halt hostilities and to ask the UN secretary general to send a  special envoy on a fact-finding mission so the United Nations will try to  reconcile the two parties within the framework of the Yemeni unity," he told  the United Arab Emirates semi-official daily al-Ittihad.
"I will assign an envoy who will be trusted by the two warring parties. He  will start contacts in Yemen once a ceasefire is enforced."
Yemen's northern leaders, battling rivals in the south since May 5, have  rejected any UN role in the crisis on the grounds it is an internal affair.
Egypt, Saudi Arabia and four Gulf Arab states have asked the Security  Council to discuss the war and call for a ceasefire to pave the way for a  dialogue.
"From my contacts with the concerned parties, they could agree on putting  the Yemeni issue to UN debate and on a resolution on the crisis," Boutros  Ghali said.
"If we assume there is opposition from some parties, the security council  has the authority to issue such a resolution. But I am hopeful the warring  parties will realise that it is in their interest to cooperate with the  security council."
He said he had discussed the Yemeni war with US President Bill Clinton and  sought his support for peaceful efforts. "President Clinton agreed in  principle that the security council issue a resolution on a ceasefire in  Yemen," he said.
