Four candidates from across the political spectrum  will find out if their presidential ambitions have borne fruit Monday when a  special electoral college of deputies votes here to decide Germany's next head  of state.
The special 1,324-strong assembly, which only meets once every five years  for presidential elections, comprises the 662 federal members of parliament  and an equal number of party-chosen delegates from the 16 regional  legislatures.
Their choice for the largely honorary post will rest between conservative  Roman Herzog, Social Democrat Johannes Rau -- favourite and main challenger  respectively -- Free Democrat Hildegard Hamm-Bruecher, and non-aligned  outsider Jens Reich.
Whoever is elected to the post will face the difficult task of succeeding  Richard von Weizsaecker, who has arguably become Germany's most popular  political figure in his 10 years as incumbent.
Although the presidency, which switched its headquarters from Bonn to  Berlin in January, fulfills a largely honorary function comparable to that of  the British monarchy, Von Weizsaecker wielded considerable influence during  his 10-year tenure.
Showing his compatriots by example a means of combining national pride  with the respect for moral imperatives dictated by Germany's Nazi past, he  rose to become the embodiment of his country's conscience.
The election could also prove a watershed for Chancellor Helmut Kohl,  whose personal popularity rating has sunk after 12 years in power.
Should his candidate -- Herzog -- fail to win, Kohl's capacity for  conserving authority among his governing coalition will be undermined,  analysts say, just five months ahead of crucial legislative elections.
Under the college's election system, the winner requires an absolute  majority in either the first or second round of balloting.
If the poll goes to a third round, the candidate with the highest number  of votes will be elected.
The pre-poll favourite, 60-year-old Herzog, is the most conservative of  the four.
A member of the Christian Democrat Union (CDU) since 1970, he has a  reputation for enjoying the good life.
A lawyer by training, he has been president of Germany's constitutional  court since November 1987.
His closest challenger is expected to be Rau -- the candidate who opinion  polls say the man and woman in the street would vote for if they had the  chance.
Prime minister of Germany's most important and densely-populated state of  North Rhine-Westphalia since 1978, the avuncular Rau, aged 63, is also  well-liked within his Social Democrat Party (SPD).
Rau says he would "reconcile rather than divide". But the present balance  of party votes is against him.
Hamm-Bruecher, meanwhile, could at the age of 73 be dismissed as too old  for the job.
But not content to remain simply the "Grand Lady of the Liberals," this  former junior foreign minister has an iron will and is one of the independent  thinkers on the left wing of the Free Democrat Party (FDP).
The fourth candidate, easterner Jens Reich, 55, is the joker in the pack.
Although a serious political challenger, unlike his rivals he is not  backed by one of the three main parties of government and thus has no chance  of being elected.
