About 3.8 million Malawians will elect a new  president and 177 legislators Tuesday to end three decades of one-party and  strongman rule of President Hastings Kamuzu Banda.
"It will be the big acid test for Banda and his ruling Malawi Congress  Party" (MCP), a Blantyre voter said.
The poll comes nearly one year after a referendum backed the introduction  of multi-party politics in this impoverished southern African nation of 10  million people.
Banda, who is officially 88 but is widely believed to be in his 90s, has  ruled Malawi with an iron hand. He was compelled to call the referendum after  strong internal and international pressure to democratise the country.
He had previously vowed that as long as he lived, no multi-party politics  would be introduced in Malawi.
The elections will consist of separate parliamentary and presidential  polls and the head of state will be elected by popular vote regardless of how  his party will fare.
Banda, haunted by defeat in the referendum, has stiff opposition from  Bakili Muluzi, the popular leader of the United Democratic Front (UDF)  favoured to win the presidential poll.
Muluzi, 51, is Banda's former right-hand man and most of his senior  executives once served the MCP in ministerial positions.
But fears have grown that the fragmented opposition -- which failed to  unite despite enormous public calls for unity -- will share votes on two other  presidential candidates: Chakufwa Chihana, 53, of the Alliance for Democracy  (AFORD) and Kamlepo Kalua, 36, of the Malawi Democratic Party (MDP).
Fifth presidential candidate Tim Mangwazu of the Malawi National  Democratic Party (MNDP) pulled out of the race earlier this month to join a  loose alliance called Common Electoral Group (CEG) with five other parties.
The CEG, mainly backing Muluzi as their presidential candidate, is  composed  of the UDF, the Malawi Democratic Union (MDU), MNDP, the Congress  for Second Republic (CRS) and the United Front for Multi-Party Democracy  (UfMD).
Political analysts here believe that the battle is between the MCP and the  UDF, the only two of the eight parties which fielded candidates for all 177  seats.
The ailing president, who underwent brain surgery last October and  recently cut short an election campaign tour of the country because of an  undisclosed leg ailment, Saturday inspected troops from an open truck as some  20,000 people turned up at a stadium here to celebrate his official birthday.
Another 50,000 attended an opposition rally that was addressed by  presidential challenger Muluzi.
He predicted that his party, with a strong base in the densely-populated  south of the country, would win the elections.
Muluzi said Banda's government had done "nothing" to develop Malawi, while  his party would strive to fulfill its election promises, including free  education.
"There is a lot of poverty in this country. We want to change that and  make Malawi a prosperous nation," he said.
Earlier, Banda said in an address on national radio that his work of  ruling Malawi was not yet finished.
He said he and his Malawi Congress Party had the experience and skills  necessary to face the "challenges and dangers" ahead of the country.
Banda, accused of serious human rights abuses during his rule, said his  government would respect human rights and uphold good and accountable  government.
