Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's government said  Wednesday that the threat of Pakistan's nuclear capability had protected it  from an attack by India.
"It is because of the balance of terror that India has not gone on the  offensive," Interior Minister Naseerullah Babar said in the Senate.
He was speaking on a motion by some opposition members who alleged that  Pakistan accepted a "unilateral capping" of its nuclear programme during the  April visit here of Strobe Talbott, the US assistant secretary of state.
These apprehensions "are not based on reality," Babar said, adding "we  will not go for unilateral capping, let alone reducing and ultimately  eliminating our nuclear programme."
US economic and military aid to Pakistan remains suspended under an  embargo imposed in 1990, which also led to the halt in delivery of 38 F-16  fighters paid for by Islamabad under a 1989 deal for 71 of the aircraft.
The F-16 issue remained unresolved during Talbott's visit. He had proposed  that Islamabad accept a "verifiable cap" on the production of fissile  materials "in association with enhanced US cooperation with Pakistan."
Pakistan has opposed linkage between the release of F-16s and the nuclear  issue, but the two sides have agreed to continue talks on the US proposal with  a view to "developing an approach acceptable to both."
President Farooq Ahmed Leghari is due to start a private visit to the  United States this week.
Babar said the present government had repeatedly stated that it would not  accept any curbs on Pakistan's nuclear programme as long as India agreed to do  the same.
"As long as India refuses to initial the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,  Pakistan will also not do it," the minister said.
Pakistan and India fought two wars in 1948 and 1965 over the disputed  Himalyan region of Kashmir and a third in 1971, when Pakistan's former eastern  wing, now Bangladesh, broke away.
Tensions over Kashmir, which is divided between Pakistan and India,  continue amid international fears that, since both are believed to have atomic  weapons, another flareup could spell disaster.
