Britain's opposition Labour Party, united in grief  over the sudden death of leader John Smith, is however expected to waste no  time naming a successor tipped to win the next election, analysts said  Saturday.
Officially, the party has thus far refused to speculate on the likely  outcome of a leadership contest, with party chairman David Blunkett calling  Saturday on the press to allow the movement a few days' grace to mourn Smith,  who died of a heart attack Thursday.
"I would ask people to give us a few days to because many of us are still  reeling," he said.
But he added that the leadership issue would be resolved "sensibly but  quickly," with mid-July a likely deadline.
Lauded by a succession of parliamentary colleagues as "the best prime  minister Britain never had," Smith had been destined to lead his party into  power after the next elections due by 1997, analysts said.
Enjoying a substantial lead in the polls over the long-governing  Conservatives at the time of his death, Smith had managed through  modernisation to unite Labour's left and right wings, and reassured the  electorate by eroding the union's hold over the party's decision-making  process.
Many within the party believe his successor will be ideally placed to  guide that process to fruition at the ballot box.
"At the end of the day what matters is not if you agree with somebody but  if you can trust him," said left-wing Labour grandee Tony Benn, in an  assessment at once paying homage to Smith and outlining the qualities the  party next leader will need to bring to the job.
Lord Callaghan, Labour's last prime minister in the 1970s, also urged a  swift leadership contest.
"I would certainly like to see it got on with," he said." There is ...  less than a couple of years before" the next general election.
The party itself may steer clear of speculation, but the press and London  bookmakers have already designated their man: shadow home secretary Tony Blair.
Belonging like Smith to the party's right wing, Blair, a fresh-faced  41-year-old with a reputation as a charismatic speaker, is currently the  bookies' 1-3 favourite for the top job.
An MP for the last 11 years and a member of the shadow cabinet since 1984,  Blair was hailed Saturday in a Financial Times profile as "the man who might  become Labour's JFK (John Fitzgerald Kennedy)."
His youth may count against him but the fact that he has never held a  government post will not, as that shortcoming is shared by all his senior  colleagues in a party which has not tasted power for 15 years.
Some commentators have cited a possible "dream ticket" partnership at the  head of the party between Blair and ebullient left-winger John Prescott.
Others, meanwhile, have tipped shadow chancellor Gordon Brown, 43, to head  the party, with acting leader Margaret Beckett, 51, fulfilling the deputy's  role she held under Smith.
According to an opinion poll Saturday the Conservative Party has now  fallen into third place -- 21 points behind Labour and half a point behind the  Liberal Democrats.
It gave Labour 45.5 percent, the Liberal Democrats 25 and the Tories just  24.5.
All three parties announced a suspension of campaigning for next month's  European elections until after Smith's funeral Friday in Edinburgh.
But whoever is chosen to head Labour will have to renew battle with a  combative John Major.
On Friday he warned would-be Conservative challengers to his rocky  premiership that he intended to serve as prime minister to the end of his  five-year mandate, which expires in 1997, and that critics should reserve  their judgement until then.
And although clearly shocked by his opponent's untimely death, Major's  confidence will have been boosted by the likely effect of Smith's demise on  the Tory leadership pretensions of Michael Heseltine, 61, who himself suffered  a heart attack last year, analysts said.
