In a break with long tradition, some  specially-trained London police teams will openly carry hand guns and will not  need prior permission to use them, Police Commissioner Paul Condon said Monday.
But he said general arming of the police was not in the offing.
He said the officers will be on 24-hour patrol around the British capital  in armed response vehicles (ARV), as they have been. But the difference will  be that they will carry their guns in holsters rather than in locked metal  coffers in the rear of the vehicle.
Previously, ARV officers could not even remove a weapon from the locked  box without specific permission from a senior officer.
Condon said the change followed the murder of two officers and shootings  and stabbings in recent months, in hopes it "will postpone the necessity to  routinely arm police officers."
He said the number of ARVs in London was being increased from five to 12,  and that bullet- and knife-proof vests, improved night sticks and  incapacitating gas sprays were being tested.
Britain is one of few countries in the West in which all police officers  do not routinely carry firearms, a tradition which many police are loathe to  see changed.
However, increasing violence against police, who historically had  commanded respect simply by virtue of their uniforms and presence, has  provoked a change in thinking expected to be the focus of a meeting of the  Police Federation Conference (PFC) in Brighton this week.
"Fifteen years ago I used to walk out on patrol and I never expected more  than a push or a shove from some drunk," detective constable Norman Brennan  told BBC Radio.
"Today, my hair stands on end when I'm dealing with a group or even one  person because I never know if he's going to pull out a knife or a gun,  because I certainly know that they won't be frightened to use it and it could  cost me my life."
"I think we all value the traditional image of the British bobby," said  Condon, "but we have to police the real world and the equipment and training  must have some link with the real world.
"Having had two officers murdered, two shot and several stabbed I am not  prepared to ask them to carry out their job without better protection."
"If everyone has to wear a gun there would be no high standards. We have  restricted the training and issue of firearms to highly-trained and capable  police officers."
Home Secretary Michael Howard, due to address the PFC conference on  Wednesday, told the BBC, "We are a long way from a situation in which every  police officer is armed, but we do have to recognise the difficulties that  exist."
