Indian Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao told a  joint session of Congress Wednesday that he supported a global approach to  controlling nuclear weapons proliferation and disarmament.
"The difficult and complex question of nuclear weapons proliferation can  be effectively addressed only when we consider their global reach, requiring  similar global solutions," Rao told legislators.
Rao made no reference to a US regional non-proliferation proposal for  South Asia that has been resisted by India and Pakistan, both of whom are  nuclear-threshold states capable of quickly assembling nuclear bombs.
"An agreement to outlaw the use of nuclear weapons is necessary in the  short term ... while serious multilateral negotiations are launched for  nuclear disarmament, the objective being a nuclear-free world," he said.
His call for a global solution to nuclear nonproliferation would seem to  quiet critics at home who opposed the US-backed regional approach without  totally rebuffing the United States.
Rao, the first Indian prime minister to visit Washington since Rajiv  Gandhi in 1987, was the first head of state to address a joint session of  Congress since Russian President Boris Yeltsin was accorded that honor in 1992.
The address before Congress, the confirmation hearings for  ambassador-designate Frank Wisner Tuesday and Rao's meeting with President  Bill Clinton and other cabinet members are aimed at shoring up strained  US-India relations.
India has been miffed over the 18-month delay in naming a US ambassador to  such a key post and over US administration efforts to bypass a congressional  ban and go ahead with the sale of 38 F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan.
Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott tried to persuade Pakistan in  April to accept a verifiable cap on its nuclear weapons in exchange for a  one-time waiver of a ban on the sale of the jets that Pakistan has already  paid for.
Pakistan has resisted such a cap and on Wednesday argued the threat of  Pakistan's nuclear capability had protected it from attack on India.
Rao met with Defense Secretary William Perry Wednesday when the prickly  issue of nuclear non-proliferation and the sale of the fighter jets to  Pakistan were expected to be discussed.
The United States says it has pressed the nuclear issue as critical for  international security because of rising Indian-Pakistan tensions in Kashimir  that it fears could escalate into a nuclear exchange.
During his trip, Rao has persistently focused on the new economic  relationship between the United States and India that has benefitted from  Rao's wide-ranging economic reforms instituted three years ago.
Trade between the two countries last year totalled 7.3 billion dollars and  Rao repeatedly told business leaders here and Congress on Wednesday that his  country's labor market, huge domestic market and democratic system offers  tremendous investment opportunities.
During his congressional address, Rao also touched on the issue of human  rights, saying India is determined that "the rights of minority groups must be  protected vigorously."
But he also defended the government's right to protect those from "the  most dangerous threat to the violation of human rights, namely, the bullets of  terrorists."
As he spoke, a group of Sikhs and Kashmiris protested outside Congress and  Human Rights Watch/Asia and Physicians for Human Rights released a report  highly critical of India's anti-insurgency campaign.
Indian police murdered and tortured hundreds of Sikhs during the  decade-long insurgency in Punjab, state-sanctioned methods that are also used  in Kashmir, the human rights groups charged.
