Ruud Gullit produced a part-time cameo  performance to inspire World Cup-bound Holland to a 3-1 romp against  outclassed Scotland on Friday.
Duncan Shearer replied with his first international goal for the visitors,  but his strike could not hide the gulf between the two sides.
Gullit only played the first half but still had time to set up Brian Roy  for the opener and put two more chances just wide as he tormented the  visitors' defence on both flanks.
The Italian-based star, who returned to Dutch colours after making his  peace with manager Dick Advocaat, rounded Brian Irvine after 18 minutes and  his cross eventually fell to Roy who blasted a 20-yard volley into the top  left-hand corner.
Gullit, who had retired from international football when Advocaat  substituted him during the qualifying match against England at Wembley in  April last year, then fired into the sidenetting and headed over unmarked  after 28 minutes as he escaped the offside trap.
Scotland, who failed to qualify for the World Cup, had just one real  chance before the break, John McGinlay latching onto a through ball but being  put off as goalkeeper Ed de Goey stormed out.
A series of substitutions at half time by both teams saw Scotland claw  back into the game but Peter van Vossen hit them with his seventh goal in  eight games after the home side broke from their own penalty area.
Van Vossen, in acres of spare, curled a right-footed shot past substitute  goalkeeper Brian Gunn to seal an intricate Dutch move on 62 minutes.
Blackburn defender Colin Hendry pulled down Rob Witschge with 20 minutes  to go only for Wim Jonk to blast the spot kick against the bar but the next  Scots blunder was more heavily punished, Irving planting a left-wing cross  past his own keeper to make it 3-0 with just over a quarter-of-an-hour to go.
Shearer's consolation on 82 minutes came after lively substitute Eion Jess  crossed from the left and the striker poached a header to restore some of  Scotland's shattered pride.
