China has launched a high-profile campaign against  financial fraud after a spate of embezzlement cases and bank swindles  involving large quantities of state funds, press reports said Thursday.
During a top-level conference covered on the front pages of all major  Chinese newspapers, Vice Premier and governor of the People's Bank of China  Zhu Ronji said financial fraud had become "an eye-catching problem" in recent  years.
Launching the campaign, Zhu urged financial bodies at all levels to  "sharpen their sense of responsibility" in protecting state assets and  safeguarding state benefits, and to strictly implement laws and regulations  governing financial affairs.
The campaign is the strongest indication to date that the incidence of  white-collar crime, which has boomed along with China's economic development,  has reached an unacceptable level.
Earlier this month, two Chinese Americans were jailed for 20 years and 14  years for bilking an Agricultural Bank of China branch in the northern  province of Hebei of 200 standby letters of credit worth 10 billion dollars.
Two Chinese officials of the bank -- one of the country's largest -- were  also jailed for 19 years and 11 years for "revealing state secrets" and for  being conned by the businessmen.
Vice Minister of Public Security Mou Xinsheng told the conference that  public security organs would cooperate closely with banks in cracking down on  white-collar crime.
Firm and effective measures will also be taken to curb the forging,  stealing and reselling of bills of value added taxes, Mou said.
The forged or stolen invoices are bought by businesses in medium- and  large-sized cities who use them to manipulate tax returns.
China uncovered 159,700 economic crimes last year, with the number of  "serious" offences, including embezzlement and fraud, totalling 30,000 --  almost double the 1992 figure.
The crimes also included new categories such as illegal stock trading.
Officials confiscated 833 million yuan (95.7 million dollars) from  economic offenders in 1993 and recovered 467 million yuan from defrauded state  industries.
