Two British airlines Sunday cancelled flights to  Paris' Orly airport, averting a showdown over landing rights after France  agreed to open the airport to services from London by the end of June.
In a joint statement, French Transport Minister Bernard Bosson and his  British counterpart John MacGregor said they were committed to opening the  Orly-London link to air traffic "as soon as possible and at the latest by the  end of June."
Spokesmen for British Airways (BA) and Air UK told AFP their companies had  decided to cancel inaugural London-Orly services that had been planned for  Monday in defiance of a landing ban by French authorities.
But background tensions remained as a bullish BA pledged to press for a  start date to services earlier than the ministries' deadline, amid reports  that France might appeal against the form of a European Commission ruling  which sparked the dispute by ordering the route to be opened to competition.
The airline spokesmen said the scheduled flights, out of London's Heathrow  and Stansted airports respectively, would still go ahead but would be rerouted  to Paris's northern Charles de Gaulle-Roissy airport.
Until now all London-Paris flights have landed at Charles de Gaulle.
A spokesman for the Paris ministry said London had agreed to ensure that  BA, its TAT subsidiary, and Air UK cancelled the planned flights into Orly,  south of Paris, Monday.
BA chairman Colin Marshall said in a statement: "Our objective ... was to  secure our right to fly to Orly and we have done that. We are pleased that the  French government is now committed to not interfering with the implementation  of the European Commission decision."
He said BA was "prepared to defer the start of our services for a short  time."
But he added that he was confident outstanding problems could be resolved  before the end of June, and warned that the company would press the British  government "for the earliest possible date for the start of services."
Air UK managing director Andrew Gray said the company now looked forward to  "the opportunity to ... use our slots and fulfill our objectives to serve  Paris Orly."
The ministries' statement said that, on the French side, outstanding  "safety, environmental and congestion problems" would be resolved in line with  existing EU regulations, while problems faced by French carriers in gaining  landing slots at British airports, particularly Heathrow, would be examined.
But neither airline mentioned problems facing their French competitors  over landing rights at Heathrow.
The British carriers had planned to land up to 10 airliners at Orly Monday  in breach of the French ban after insisting with British government backing  that they were entitled to start services in line with the commission ruling  last month.
But French authorities continued to bar British flights to the airport in  defiance of the decision, which ordered France to open three routes --  Orly-London, Orly-Toulouse and Orly-Marseilles -- to competition.
Bosson aides said Sunday that France still intended to appeal against the  opening of the Toulouse and Marseilles routes, while the government reserved  the right to appeal against the legal formulation of the commission's ruling  on the London link, rather than the decision itself.
BA had threatened Friday to sue the French government if it stopped the  company's flights, while French aviation authorities were reported ready to  reject the British carriers' flight plans, which would make it illegal for  them to take off from London.
Bosson had earlier cited congestion at Orly, environmental considerations  and increased access to London's Heathrow airport for French carriers as  issues which needed to be resolved before the route is opened.
Paris' southern airport represents a key market for foreign carriers,  which have to date only been authorised to ply the Orly-Nice route.
But national carrier Air France, which lost almost 8.5 billion francs  (1.45 billion dollars) last year, fears dire financial consequences if Orly is  opened too swiftly to its competitors.
