Japanese electronics giants, including the  monolithic Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. Ltd., announced Friday lower  profits as a result of the stronger yen but forecast improved earnings for the  current year.
The big exception was Ricoh Co. Ltd., the leading manufacturer of  photocopiers, which boosted its worldwide earnings by more than half in the  year to March, reaping the benefits of two years of major restructuring.
Matsushita, the world's biggest consumer electronics concern with global  revenue almost twice that of Sony Corp., said its consolidated pre-tax  earnings tumbled 21 percent to 128 billion yen (1.24 billion dollars).
Japan's two leading audio manufacturers also announced dismal results with  group earnings at Pioneer Electronic Corp. plunging 66 percent to 9.5 billion  yen, including an operating loss of 5.7 billion yen at the parent company.    Kenwood Corp. suffered a pre-tax loss of 1.2 billion yen at the parent.
Ricoh meanwhile announced a 51 percent surge in group profits to 25.6  billion yen despite lower sales, citing improved margins as a result of  streamlining its product range and focussing on higher-value-added products.
Matsushita, better known by its National, Panasonic and Technics brand  names, said worldwide sales fell six percent to 6,624 billion yen in the year.
The Osaka-based manufacturer, which also owns the MCA entertainment  company in the United States, forecast a sharply higher group profit of 190  billion yen for the current year with sales edging up to 6,630 billion yen.
But Matsushita was still cautious in its outlook.
"The domestic economy finally appears to be coming out of a protracted  slump but its future course still seems uncertain. In addition, the business  environment does not warrant optimism in view of trade friction, the strong  yen and tougher competition," the company said in a statement.
In the latest year, domestic sales fell six percent to 3,362 billion yen  while overseas sales also dropped six percent to hit 3,262 billion yen.
"Recovery was seen in our exports of audio-visual equipment to China and  Southeast Asia, and in almost all areas with exports of electronic devices.  But exports of audio-visual equipment to Europe remained stagnant which, along  with the stronger yen, contributed to an overall decrease in exports."
Matsushita said the success of the box-office smash hit "Jurassic Park"  contributed to an increase in entertainment revenues although sales in this  division declined in yen terms because of the stronger currency. "On the  whole, revenue from music and theme parks was brisk," the company added.
The announcement came a day after arch-rival Sony reported a 10 percent  increase in group earnings to 102 billion yen, mainly due to foreign exchange  gains. Both suffered similar double-digit declines in operating profits.
Pioneer's global sales were down 14 percent at 510 billion yen, depressed  by lower revenue from audio products, which was down by more than 20 percent.  Sales of video equipments and car electronic products also declined.
The company said earnings at the parent, which tumbled 90 percent to 1.7  billion yen, were expected to recover to 5.2 billion yen this year although a  pre-tax loss of 700 million yen was forecast for the first half.
Kenwood, of which the loss contrasted to a pre-tax profit of 4.03 billion  yen a year earlier, said sales fell six percent to 197 billion yen last year.
But the company, which relies on exports for two-thirds of its revenue,  forecast a return to the black in the current year with a pre-tax profit of  2.5 billion yen on sharply higher sales of 220 billion yen.
For Ricoh, its sharply higher profit came despite a five percent fall in  sales to 968 billion yen, depressed by the stronger yen.
"Since fiscal year 1991, Ricoh has succeeded in reducing the cost of sales  ratio each year and this has resulted in higher profit margins for the company  despite slacker sales," the company said. Profits also benefitted from lower  interest rates and foreign exchange gains.
Ricoh forecast an even higher group profit of 33 billion yen for the  current year with sales recovering to the 1,030 billion yen level.
