The new Italian government headed by Silvio  Berlusconi plans to increase income from privatisation by 50 billion dollars  by accelerating and extending the programme, Treasury Minister Lamberto Dini  said on Tuesday.
He was giving details behind the government's economic programme, which  was unveiled on Monday, in an interview with the International Herald Tribune  newspaper.
The new Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said that his programme was based  on accelerating privatisation and several measures to increase employment when  he addressed the senate on Monday.
Dini said that Italy would opt for the British method of privatisation  based on many small shareholders, or the French model based on core,  institutional shareholders, case by case.
The state would probably retain a minority stake with a right to a  controlling vote in the STET telecommunications company and the ENEL  electricity undertaking.
The government would privatise almost everything and would withdraw  completely from holding groups such as IRI which owns hundreds of companies  ranging from supermarkets to the Alitalia airline, he said.
The IRI steel subsidiary Ilva would be privatised as would Finmeccanica,  the aerospace group which controls the Agusta helicopter company, weapons  plants and facilities making railway equipment.
Dini said that the Agip oil company would be privatised.
Berlusconi had said that he would speed up privatisation beginning with  the INA insurance group, STET, ENEL and the ENI hydrocarbons group.
He said he intended to introduce six measures during his first 100 days in  office.
He would reduce the tax burden on companies which were net creators of  jobs, relax formalities for small companies taking on labour, make  apprenticeships more attractive to companies, favour temporary employment,  render the labour market more flexible with the use of part-time jobs, and  revise procedures for public tenders.
Several public tender arrangements have been held up for months because of  investigations into corruption in the public sector.
Berlusconi also said that he would soon abolish tax on annual income of  less than 10 million lire (6,250 dollars) in order to help pensioners.
He also intended to act quickly to encourage investment by small and  medium-sized companies.
