In a further breakthrough for peace in South  Africa, the white right-wing Conservative Party (CP) agreed Monday to join  talks on a separate homeland for Afrikaners, President Nelson Mandela said.
Addressing a press conference after holding talks with CP leader Ferdi  Hartzenberg early Monday, Mandela said Deputy President Thabo Mbeki would  facilitate tripartite talks between the government, the CP and another  right-wing group, the Freedom Front (FF).
The CP boycotted South Africa's first all-race elections last month to  press its demand for a "volkstaat", or white homeland, and warned that  Afrikaners would resort to violence to achieve their goal.
But a bouyant Hartzenberg, who claims to represent two-thirds of the  country's estimated three million white Afrikaners, told the press conference  that the CP had decided to negotiate directly with the government on a  volkstaat.
Monday's meeting with Mandela was "successful," he said.
"Procedures have been put in place to make progress and I'm optimistic  there is no need for violence to achieve results," Hartzenberg said.
The FF, which contested the election and won 2.17 percent of the vote, has  already begun preparing for negotiations by establishing a Volkstaat Council  to examine issues such as the boundaries, powers and structures of a proposed  homeland.
Mandela said other right-wing groups were welcome to join the talks, which  were aimed at "healing the wounds of the past" and "nation-building", but that  the government would not force any party to participate.
"It is a question of co-operation," Mandela said. "Our doors are open and  we will seek discussions with all."
Last week Mandela announced that Eugene Terre'Blanche, the leader of the  neo-Nazi Afrikaner Resistance Movement (AWB), would join Hartzenberg at  Monday's meeting.
But in a later statement, the AWB executive council said it would be  futile to hold talks until amnesty had been granted to right-wing prisoners  and those awaiting trial.
Thirty-four AWB members are awaiting trial for a bombing spree, in the two  days before the April 26-29 election, that killed 21 people. Among  right-wingers in jail are Janusz Walus and Clive Derby-Lewis, the 1993  assassins of communist leader and black hero, Chris Hani.
The AWB said it would study a proposed Amnesty Bill being drafted by  Justice Minister Dullah Omar to decide whether the AWB's pre-conditions for a  meeting with Mandela's African National Congress had been met.
Mandela said Monday that the question of amnesty was discussed with  Hartzenberg, but no conclusion was reached.
Hartzenberg would hold further talks with Omar on the issue, he added.
br/ccr
d1232 30Mai94
