Consumer financiers and the Israeli widow of a  computer game czar topped the list of Japan's biggest taxpayers for 1993,  while real estate dealers bowed out of the limelight as the end of the "bubble  economy" investment boom became more apparent.
Only 46 people in the list of the top 100 taxpayers issued by the national  tax administration agency Monday had made their fortunes through the sale of  real estate.
The figure, the lowest in 10 years, was down 20 from the previous year and  down 40 from the peak year in 1991, the agency said.
But 30 people made the top 100 by selling stocks, up 11 from the previous  year. Of them, eight were related to share sales by consumer financing  companies.
Yasuo Takei, the 64-year-old founder of Takefuji Co., which offers  unsecured loans to consumers, topped the list by paying 4.3 billion yen (41  million dollars) in tax.
He was estimated to have sold 10 million Takefuji shares for some 20  billion yen as part of preparations to list his company on the stock market in  a few years.
His 52-year-old wife, Hiroko, was ranked 15th by paying 867 million yen in  income tax, mainly due to the sale of some two million Takefuji shares.
Asya Kogan, the 69-year-old widow of Taito Corp. founder Mikhail Kogan,  was second on the list after paying 2.2 billion yen in tax. The Israeli  citizen sold 2,000 Taito shares when the company was listed on the second  section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange in August.
Her husband, a Russian Jew, fled Stalin's repression in the Soviet Union  and founded Taito in 1953.
Taito has boosted its business through sales of juke boxes and  entertainment equipment, particularly the game "Space Invaders" which became a  worldwide hit before his death in 1984.
Her eldest son, Abraham, 44, was also ranked 10th by paying 1.2 billion  yen for the sale of 700 Taito shares.
Another consumer financier, Jinnai Ryoichi, 67, was the third biggest  taxpayer with 1.7 billion yen for selling 2.5 million shares of his firm  Promise Co. when it went public in September.
The popularity of Japan's first professional football league, which was  established last year, put Kawasaki Verdy star striker Kazu Miura on the list  ahead of other sporting celebrities.
Miura, 27, paid 137 million yen in taxes on payments from his team and  commercial endorsements, upstaging a galaxy of professional baseball players.
On Japan's political front, reputed kingmaker Ichiro Ozawa was taxed 49  million yen, three times what he had paid the previous year, for brisk sales  of his book on "remodeling Japan" into a nation with a greater international  role.
The book has sold 700,000 copies since it hit the bookstands in May last  year, bringing in an estimated 105 million yen to the 51-year-old author and  making him the seventh highest taxpayer among politicians last year.
