UN inspectors left for North Korea Sunday after  Pyongyang said it had started a controversial replacement of reactor fuel  rods, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said.
The agency had said the inspectors would not make the trip unless the  reclusive Stalinist state agreed to postpone the fuel rod replacement. But on  Saturday the agency said it was not clear if the process had begun and wanted  to see for itself.
A spokesman said the IAEA had decided to go ahead with the trip even  though its team of inspectors were unlikely to complete more than half the  work it wanted carried out at the Yongbyon site, 90 kilometers (56 miles)  north of Pyongyang.
The inspectors are expected in the North Korean capital on Tuesday.
On Saturday Pyongyang said in a statement carried by its mouthpiece Korean  Central News Agency monitored in Tokyo that the fuel rod replacement process  had begun without international inspectors present.
"Refuelling is taking place under the watch of the cameras installed by  the agency (IAEA)," a North Korean foreign ministry spokesman said. "So there  are no grounds for concern about the diversion of the replaced fuel rods for  another purpose."
IAEA spokesman David Kyd however warned that if refuelling had indeed  started, it would be a "grave violation" of agreements between the agency and  North Korea on inspections.
"If the reports (of the refuelling) turn out to be correct, the inspectors  will be immediately recalled to Vienna," he said Saturday. The inspectors  would cut short their visit if the refuelling operation had reached a  "critical stage" before their expected arrival, he said.
Experts said if seals on the reactor's fuel rods were broken it would be  impossible to determine whether plutonium had been diverted to a clandestine  nuclear weapons programme.
US Defence Secretary William Perry warned last month that during the  current change the North could extract enough weapons-grade plutonium to  manufacture "four or five bombs" in addition to the one or two the United  States believes it may already have.
During their scheduled eight-day stay in North Korea the inspectors will  carry out maintenance checks on IAEA monitoring equipment installed at the  experimental five-megawatt reactor, including replacing batteries and film.
Meanwhile in the South Korean capital Seoul, officials said they expected  new high-level talks between Washington and Pyongyang, despite the North's  moves to start refuelling Yongbyon.
Officials, quoted by the press there Sunday, based their expectations on  two things -- the first that only in a third round of high-level talks would  the crucial question of regular and additional nuclear inspections be tackled.
The second, the unnamed officials said in interviews, was that fuel rod  replacement requires at least 15 days of reactor cooling, meaning that the  start announced by the North Saturday could be interpreted as preparation.
"If the IAEA inspectors arriving in North Korea Tuesday conduct  inspections as scheduled, a third round of high-level US-North Korea talks are  highly likely to be held," South Korea's Yonhap news agency quoted one  official in Seoul as saying.
Though both Seoul and Washington interpret the North Korean statement as  saying preparations have started, if it is found to have begun replacing the  rods, then the United States will not hold the third round of talks, the  official said.
North Korea denies it has any nuclear weapons program, despite its threat  a year ago to pull out of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
A North Korean spokesman said Saturday that Pyongyang was "prepared to  store all the spent fuel under the strict surveillance of the IAEA and fully  allow the IAEA to measure it," when the dispute is settled between North Korea  and the United States.
Analysts in the South took the phraseology of the North Korean statement  as another sign that the United States and North Korea, in low-level talks  last week, had already reached an understanding that permission for monitoring  the spent rods dependend on the third session of talks.
