Debts left behind by runaway German  property developer Juergen Schneider far outweigh the assets of his collapsed  empire, his creditors heard Tuesday.
Realisable assets of the group held by the missing tycoon and his wife are  valued at 2-2.5 billion marks (1.21-1.51 billion dollars), court-appointed  liquidator Gerhard Walter told a first creditors' meeting.
This compares to debts left by the couple after their disappearance last  month of an estimated five billion marks (three billion dollars) to banks  alone, not counting money owed to contractors and suppliers.
The liquidator estimated the unsecured loans taken out by Schneider and  his wife Claudia -- what he called their "negative net assets"  -- at 3.5-4  billion marks.
Nothing would thus remain over after liquidation of Schneider assets,  Walter told the meeting of 120 creditors or their representatives in  Koenigstein, near Frankfurt, where the group had its headquarters.
Only 405 million marks of the group's outstanding debts were secured, the  meeting heard.
But a valuation of the total assets of the Schneider group in September  last year had put them at 3.7 billion marks after allowing for liabilities.  "We are still looking for these assets," Walter said.
In addition to the outstanding loans of five billion marks owed to German  banks, of which some 1.2 billion marks is due to the Deutsche Bank alone, the  Schneiders left behind debts of 150-200 million marks to construction firms  and sub-contractors, Walter said.
Schneider transferred 250 million marks in March 1993 to a London bank and  then from London to a third country, Walter also said.
He said the group had 121 properties in 14 towns, mostly in prime  inner-city sites and concentrated in Frankfurt and Leipzig.
Juergen Schneider personally held five percent of the group and Claudia  Schneider 95 percent.
A specialised Frankfurt newsletter last week reported that Schneider had  transferred 400 million marks abroad before fleeing, including 242 million  marks which had passed via London to the Bahamas.
Schneider was most recently reported in Paraguay. Earlier equally  unconfirmed reports have said he was in Florida, Iran, Switzerland or Italy.
