Australia's ailing Liberal party played the youth  card Monday picking Alexander Downer, scion of an old political family, to  lead the struggle to win back power from the Labor Party.
The election of the 42-year-old economist and former diplomat was a  generational switch aimed at ending division, distrust and personal  recriminations which have kept Australia's conservative coalition in the  wilderness for 11 years.
The Liberals have now changed leader five times since it was last in  office between 1975 and 1983. Each one has had to confront bitter factionalism  and feuding.
Right-wing lawyer Peter Costello, his 36-year-old running-mate on a "youth  ticket" was elected deputy leader in a party ballot called last Friday by  former leader John Hewson.
Downer will have learned a lot from his father and grandfather who were  both senior politicians. But not everyone is convinced this youthful "dream  team" will succeed.
Alan Ramsay, one of the country's most respected commentators echoed the  view of many in a Sydney Morning Herald article saying Downer and Costello  were out of their league "when it comes to leadership, and nothing but a truly  bereft and desperate party would even remotely consider either at this stage  of their careers."
Married with three daughters and a son, Downer comes from a privileged  background in the southern city of Adelaide, growing up in a sandstone mansion  on a lush, rambling property with its own deer park and chapel.
He went to school at the exclusive Geelong Grammar near Melbourne where  the Prince of Wales was also a student.
Downer spent 11 years years in Britain. He picked up an honours degree in  economics and a "plummy" English accent which was a handicap in the rough and  tumble of Australian politics until he started modifying it recently.
He worked as a bank economist and as speechwriter for Australia's last  conservative prime minister Malcolm Fraser.
Downer served as a diplomat between 1976 and 1982 as a member of the  Australian Mission to the European Community in Brussels, at the Australian  Embassy in Belgium and Luxembourg and was head of the foreign affairs  department in Adelaide.
His father, Sir Alexander Downer, was a renowned deeply conservative  federal minister for five years and served as Australian high commissioner in  London from 1964 to 1972.
But his grandfather Sir John Downer (1843-1915) is remembered as a  progressive South Australian premier, notable law reformer, supporter of  women's rights and one of the three framers of the Australian constitution.
The latest Downer styles himself a "progressive conservative," believing  that change is inevitable but should be anticipated and properly managed. "I  am not an ideologue by any stretch of the imagination," he said recently.
He has given no detailed outline of new policies other than to promise a  broad statement within two months indicating his favoured policy direction.
Howver, analysts believe his leadership will mark a departure from the  ultra-dry economics of Hewson, whose defeat in a supposedly unlosable election  l5 months ago was blamed on his campaign to introduce a consumption tax.
Downer, who is judged to have performed well as shadow treasurer, opposes  a radical revamp of the tax structure with anything resembling a consumption  tax to fund personal tax cuts, although he supports deep government spending  cuts.
He favours some government intervention with less dry policies, such as in  establishing a government body to help small business and the use of some of  the proceeds of privatisation sales to finance public infratructure.
He opposes excessive foreign ownership of Australia's media or of other  "strategic sectors" of the economy and advocates an independent foreign policy  which would be pro-Washington but not subservient to Washington.
