South Africa's dominant party, the African  National Congress (ANC), has more than doubled the expected cost of its  ambitious plan to wipe out apartheid's backlogs, reports said Wednesday.
The Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP), the cornerstone of  President Nelson Mandela's government of national unity, will now cost 80-90  billion rand (21-24 billion dollars) over five years, according to the ANC's  economic think-tank.
The new estimate is more than double the 39 billion rand (10.6 billion  dollar) price tag that ANC officials touted before the April 26-29 all-race  election, in which the ANC swept to power.
The ANC's National Institute for Economic Policy, headed by Max Sisulu, an  ANC parliamentarian, confirmed the revised figures to Business Day newspaper,  a Johannesburg financial daily.
The ANC's election opponents had slammed the RDP, with the National Party  of former president, and now deputy president, Frederik de Klerk, stating that  the programme would cost 600 billion rand (164 billion dollars).
Economists believe the RDP is unattainable without significant economic  growth to boost the government coffers, already hampered by a mounting  interest burden and a slowdown in receipts due to the prolonged recession.
Payments to service the national debt, which has crept up to 55 percent of  gross domestic product, are expected to reach 23 billion rand (6.3 billion  dollars) in 1994, which could be the largest item on the budget due to be  presented in June.
Finance Minister Derek Keys, who retained his portfolio when Mandela  assumed the presidency, will have his hands tied further by an estimated three  billion rand (820 million dollar) overrun in the cost of the election and the  transition to democratic government.
Economists said that if the ANC proceeds with the RDP as presently  envisaged, it would be forced to borrow massively, causing the already high  debt to balloon, plunging South Africa into a Latin America-style debt trap.
The RDP aims to create 2.5 million jobs, build one million houses and  electrify another 2.5 million, provide 10 years of free education to all and  redistribute 30 percent of all farmland to blacks.
