Belgian authorites on Saturday remained  tight-lipped over the surprise arrest of one of France's top industrialists,  Didier Pineau-Valencienne who heads Schneider SA, refusing to confirm reports  that Paris had intervened on his behalf.
Belgian television RTBF reported that French Prime Minister Edouard  Balladur contacted his Belgian counterpart, Jean-Luc Dehaene, shortly after  Pineau-Valencienne's arrest Friday.
The industrialist was charged with fraud and taken into custody at dawn in  Brussels, sending shock waves through his company which is one of France's  biggest industrial groups.
But Belgain officials had no comment when questioned on Saturday. Jean  Hubin, top aide to Belgian Justice Miniser Melchior Wathelet, responded only  that there had been "signs of concern from the highest levels."
The French ambassador to Belgium, Jacques Berniere, said only that the  term "concern" was "appropriate."
The ambassador said he visited Pineau-Valencienne Friday night in his  private cell in Forest prison here, saying it had been a "routine" visit to a  French national jailed abroad.
Under Belgian law, Pinneau-Valencienne could be held in temporary custody  for five days, until Wednesday, when he must appear before a judge.
Pineau-Valencienne was arrested after being quizzed by investigators for  more than 20 hours, having travelled to the Belgian capital voluntarily  Thursday to answer questions.
In Paris Friday, Schneider shares were suspended and later plunged 5.6  percent to end the day at 390 francs, following the group's announcement that  Pineau-Valencienne had been charged with forgery, using false documents,  fraud, false accounting and breach of confidence.
Schneider, the 16th-biggest French industrial group and the world leader  in industrial electrical installations, expressed shock and denied any  wrongdoing by its head.
Pineau-Valencienne's arrest came as a number of leading French firms face  investigations into their activities. They include companies owned by  flamboyant left-wing deputy Bernard Tapie, Alcatel, three of whose senior  executives are under investigation for price-fixing, and insurance group GMF  over a six billion franc (one billion dollar) fraud.
The charges against Pineau-Valencienne, the result of a complex  investigation in Belgium, relate to a 1992 takeover bid by Schneider for two  Belgian finance companies, Cofimines and Cofibel, Schneider said in Paris.
Dubbed "Doctor Attila" in the 1970s by his then boss Baron Empain,  Pineau-Valencienne has transformed the company since his arrival in 1981.
In 1982 the group lost 345 million francs from a turnover around 40  billion francs. By 1993 the company had boosted turnover to 56 billion francs  and was recording profits of 405 million francs, having slashed its workforce  by around 35,000 to 91,000 and embarked upon a radical rationalisation  programme.
Empain himself hit the headlines in 1978 after being held 63 days by  kidnappers, who cut off part of one of his fingers to pressure the company  into paying up.
