Yemen's rival armies were locked in a fight to the  finish Sunday after President Ali Abdallah Saleh vowed to crush an  independence declaration by his southern foes.
Fighting in the civil war was concentrated on the approaches to the key  southern bastion of Aden, which Saleh vowed to capture after his former vice  president, Ali Salem al-Baid, declared it the capital of a breakaway state.
The struggle neared its climax on the day Yemenis should have been  celebrating the fourth anniversary of union between the conservative, tribal  North Yemen and the Marxist South Yemen.
But after more than two weeks of fighting, Baid proclaimed the creation of  a Yemeni Democratic Republic (YDR) overnight Friday, saying the union had been  a sham whose only tangible results had been a new flag and national anthem.
Saleh immediately denounced the move as illegal and called Baid a  "schizophrenic" who should be tried for war crimes. He also predicted that his  rival, who has moved his base to the eastern port of Mukallah, would have to  flee the country.
"We will never accept this secessionist decision," Saleh said, and vowed  to capture Aden, a port city of 500,000 inhabitants, "at all costs."
Meanwhile Sanna radio reported that a faction of Baid's Yemeni Socialist  Party had turned against their leader late Saturday, denouncing the southern  strongman as a "traitor" for declaring independence.
In a dispatch monitored by the BBC, the radio reported the committee of  the party's Fatah corrective faction as having sent a telegramme to Saleh  expressing support for the country's unity and urging him to make a determined  stand against moves to divide the country.
Fighting was raging across all fronts after a three-day ceasefire,  declared by Saleh to mark the Moslem feast of Al-Adha, never took hold.
Correspondents said northern troops had fought their way to within 40  kilometres (25 miles) of the city.
Northern commanders said they had moved east into the oil-rich Shabwa  region and were going to open up a front towards the eastern province of  Hadhramaut, where Baid was reported to be sheltering in his birthplace,  Mukallah.
Northern troops loyal to the president mounted "relentless attacks,"  forcing the south to retaliate, Aden Radio said.
The thunder of artillery could be clearly heard in Aden, where  celebrations at the declaration of independence were tempered by growing  concern over what lay in store.
"We want both mosques and bars, but not the bearded" Moslem  fundamentalists of the north who back the president, said Aden trader Hussein  Afif.
"Thanks to separation, our country will once again have the prosperity  that was deprived it under unification."
But Samir Abbad, a 42-year-old schoolteacher and father of two children,  admitted "We're scared of what's going to happen."
On the humanitarian front, thousands of starving Somali refugees remained  trapped by the conflict in a camp at Al-Kud, just east of Aden, in desperate  need of food, water, shelter and medical help.
A food convoy bound for the stricken Somalis was stranded in Sanaa because  of the heavy fighting.
Carlos Zaccagnini, head of the Aden bureau of the UN High Commissioner for  Refugees (UNHCR), feared the situation at the camp was becoming "catastrophic."
One refugee, Malyoun Ahmed, said about 500 refugees were killed and 800  wounded in the shelling. But the UNHCR has estimated that 175 people were  killed.
The refugees have been stranded there since fleeing war-torn Somalia in  1992, packed in boats which ferried them across the Gulf of Aden.
There was little immediate international reaction to the independence bid,  although some Arab countries have criticized Saleh's refusal to enter dialogue  with the south unless Baid surrendered for a war crimes trial.
Libya's leader Moamer Kadhafi, "in protest and mourning" at the south's  decision, decided not to take part in festivities for the Moslem Al-Adha  feast, the Libyan news agency JANA reported.
