More than 25,000 square kilometres (10,000 square  miles) of Cape York peninsula have become the biggest claim lodged under  Australia's controversial native land title legislation, officials said Monday.
The claim, by the Wik Aboriginal people from the tropical north-east of  Queensland, was one of five new claims accepted by the Native Title Tribunal  set up under the the Native Title Act last month.
The Wik people want compensation for pastoral lands, seabeds and areas of  national park as well as mining leases to the south of a large mine at Weipa  owned by mining giant, Comalco, Tribunal officials said.
Native title rights to almost 2,000 square kilometres (800 square miles)  of water on the western side of Cape York are also claimed.
The tribe want rights to the land, waters and resources in the area and  are seeking compensation for land to which it can be established native title  exists, but which does not qualify under the laws.
Interested parties now have three months to make submissions to the  Tribunal about the claim.
Legislation giving Aborigines the right to reclaim Crown land to which  they can prove a historical link followed a High Court ruling in a particular  case that native title predated British colonisation.
The so-called Mabo decision, named after a now dead Aboriginal, held that  contrary to the previous legal view, Australia was not unoccupied land at the  time of British settlement in 1788.
Land such as residential, commercial and agricultural leases extinguish  native title under the act, although mining leases do not.
Among other claims, the Yorta Yorta people want title rights to more than  113,000 hectares (280,000 acres) of land and water in the vicinity of the  Ovens, Goulburn and Murray Rivers of the heavily populated eastern states of  Victoria and New South Wales.
Victorian state premier Jeff Kennett said Monday the claim would be a  major test of the tribunal.
"People who have always thought that Victoria was going to be immune from  the impact of Mabo will now recognise that, in fact, Victoria is probably  going to be in the forefront of it," Kennett said in a radio interview.
