China published Thursday an ambitious plan to end  poverty and food problems plaguing 80 million rural Chinese by the year 2000,  but western experts derided the scheme as hopelessly unrealistic.
The State Council's draft plan, detailed on the front page of all national  dailies, pledges to concentrate China's manpower, materials and funds and to  mobilise all sectors of society to largely eradicate food shortages by the  turn of the century.
However, it also pointed out that serious natural obstacles would have to  be overcome.
"Although poor people constitute a small proportion of China's rural  population, the task of eliminating poverty is extremely difficult," the plan  said.
The majority of poverty-sticken Chinese live in some of the country's  harshest environments, such as high mountain ranges, deserts and highlands.
The plan outlined seven goals for alleviating food shortages, including a  sharp increase in per-capita earnings in most poor households and cultivating  stable and high-yield farmlands, orchards and woods.
At the same time, the problem of insufficient drinking water will be  solved, electricity provided to poor townships, primary education made  universal and adult illiteracy eliminated, vocational education promoted and  endemic diseases brought under control.
While welcoming the good intentions behind the programme, western aid  experts here said the 2000 timeframe would be impossible to realise.
"It's just not realistic at all," said a Beijing-based official with the  World Food Programme (WFP).
"Frankly the year 2000 is just a pretty number, as there is no way they  can hope to achieve these goals by that time," the official said, citing the  huge costs involved in electrification and providing drinking water to remote  areas.
A large number of extremely poor Chinese are minorities living in southern  China where the karst limestone topography prevents water retention and makes  well drilling pointless.
"One solution is pumping drinking water to such areas, but the cost would  be staggering," the WFP official said, citing the planned farmland expansion  as another goal that had little foundation in reality given the harshness of  the environment.
"The geography of the land generally does not provide any physical  possibility of expansion," the official said, adding that the problem was  exacerbated by the fact that the land was allocated 20 years ago and now has  to support far more mouths as the communities have grown.
"The only real answer is to take a lot of people off the land, give them  jobs elsewhere and consolidate the holdings of the remainder. But that is an  enormous task in itself."
The plan by the State Council, or government, does provide for relocation,  but gives no indication as to the number of people envisaged by such a  programme.
Local governments will be required to increase funding for the programme  which also emphasises the importance of promoting exchanges and cooperation  with the international community in poverty elimination.
Governments in poorer counties will be banned from buying cars, building  luxury hotels or constructing office buildings as long as the food problem  among local residents persists.
"The intentions are good, but a far more realistic timeframe would be  something like the year 2030 or even 2050," the WFP official said.
Another worker with an international aid organisation here said the aims  of eliminating adult illiteracy and promoting primary school education were  also long-term tasks.
"There are enormous social barriers to overcome in areas where children,  especially girls, regularly drop out of the education system at the age of  seven because they are they required to work," the worker said.
"Changing these attitudes will take decades."
