Chinese Vice Premier Zhu Rongji has called for  banks to loosen credit to state firms hit by the government's anti-inflation  policy, citing the importance of ensuring social stability, reports said  Monday.
The call by Zhu, who is also governor of the central bank, confirmed  recent indications that cries for help from the loss-making state sector had  prompted the government to loosen its tight credit policy amid fears of labour  unrest, despite continuing inflation of more than 20 percent.
During a recent trip to the central provinces of Hubei and Henan, Zhu  reflected the government's fears about potential instability in China, saying  attention must be focused on developing the sensitive "key" areas of  agriculture and state enterprises.
The state sector was hit badly in the first quarter by the credit  clampdown, with one in two firms losing money, up from one third in the same  period last year, while between January and April stockpiles and debt defaults  grew by 13.3 and 29.5 percent in value respectively, according to official  figures.
The People's Daily quoted Zhu as saying banks and local governments should  conduct surveys to differentiate good firms from bad and "give their full  support to those enterprises that are able to sell their products, can repay  their debts and are efficient."
He said banks should also lend to enterprises that have run into debt,  including those that have been forced to stop production and are having  difficulty paying their workers because of the lack of credit.
While promising to bail out "good" enterprises, the vice premier said  "long-term loss-makers that have no hope of turning a profit" should be  allowed to go bankrupt, at first on a trial basis and then "more broadly."
However, diplomats said the remarks reflected the government's efforts to  indicate a discriminatory approach to credit loosening, rather than any real  commitment to allowing enterprises in the sector -- estimated to have 10  million surplus workers -- go bankrupt.
"I don't sense from other statements that they're about to let state  enterprises go bankrupt, they just don't want to create the impression the  doors of banks are now open," a diplomat said.
The government's selective approach to credit easing reflected the lessons  it had learned from last fall when abrupt, well-publicised loosening of tight  money controls resulted in a dramatic rise in inflationary pressure, he said.
Diplomats said the government had actually begun easing credit to state  enterprises about six weeks ago -- a move reflected in April output figures,  which rose five percent over the same period last year, up from 2.2 percent in  the first three months.
They were cautious about whether China would succeed in easing credit  controls selectively without fuelling inflation, saying it would be hard to  differentiate good enterprises from bad and that the government may be  underestimating the amount of funds required to help the sector.
Zhu also called for greater attention on the farming sector to ensure  healthy economic development and social stability, in particular urging  efforts to secure good summer harvests and ensure smooth distribution.
Pointing to some success in curbing excessive fixed asset investment and  ensuring a plentiful supply of industrial consumer goods, he said the  anti-inflation fight should now focus on promoting grain, cotton, edible oil  and vegtable output.
"Once this work is successfully completed, the markets will stabilise and  prices will fall," he said.
The government has in recent months been forced to resort to emergency  measures such as building up reserves and reimposing price controls to curb  soaring prices of staple goods.
