Britain's Prime Minister Winston Churchill  dreamed from June 1940 on of an invasion to oust the Nazis from France and  roll them back across Europe.
On June 6, 1944, the greatest combined assault force in history landed in  Normandy in northern France. The re-conquest of Europe from the Nazis had  begun.
The epochal landing is to be commemorated in 50th anniversary celebrations  next month in France.
The United States joined Britain upon entering the war in December 1941 in  the project for an amphibious landing on the Nazi's western flank. The  British-American cooperation was unprecedented in the annals of military  history, two great nations surrendering sovereign control over their armed  forces in order to fight together.
The Allies had three main problems -- how to transport troops and  material, how to break the Nazi's heavily reinforced Atlantic Wall and how to  re-supply the beachheads.
Britain geared up to become an immense naval shipyard, turning out  thousands of landing craft.
Engineers and soldiers worked on perfecting machines to neutralize the  barricades, concrete bunkers, and mines the Germans had positioned on France's  beaches. US-made Sherman tanks were modified to be amphibious and then  specialized further to be de-miners, flame-throwers or simply armored versions  of bulldozers.
These weapons were especially effective in the landings on Gold, Sword and  June beaches in Normandy that June 6.
The south of England, meanwhile, became home to hundreds of thousands of  soldiers from the United States as well as Britain, Canada and other  Commonwealth nations.
Beaches that resembled those of Normandy were closed off as military  terrain and used for training, with the troops storming models of German  installations.
Allied frogmen headed for reconnaissance missions in France, which along  with air reconnaissance and photos transmitted by the French resistance,  helped the allied command draw up accurate maps and build detailed models.
Still, the problem of re-supply remained, since there was no port at the   Normandy beaches chosen for the invasion. And the quantities needed were  immense -- 12,000 tons of material and 2,500 vehicles during three months.
The answer was simple: build a port. The so-called Mulberry project used  600,000 tons of concrete brought in barges. These were towed towards the towns  of Arromanches and Vierville on the Normandy coast and then sunk to make  jetties blocking the sea.
A total of 160 tugs and 10,000 men, directed by 500 officers, were  involved.
An undersea pipeline built between Britain's Ile of Wight and  Port-en-Bessin in France brought petrol to the highly mechanized expeditionary  force pouring into France after D-Day.
The final preparatory phase for the invasion was a three-month-long  bombing campaign that cut off key road and rail links to isolate the German  troops defending the coast and keep away reinforcements. The French  resistance, meanwhile, carried out sabotage.
All was ready when during the night of June 5-6, 1944, the allied armada  sailed towards France, gathering in the center of the English channel before  heading straight on towards Normandy.
In the west, the Americans had 1,700 landing ships, three battleships, 10  cruisers, 35 destroyers and several dozen escort ships.
In the east, the British Royal Navy had 2,246 landing craft, three  battleships, one monitor warship, 13 cruisers, 44 destroyers and dozens of  light man-of-wars.
A total of 300 destroyers and escorts, as well as cruise ships and  aircraft carriers, blocked off the entrance of the English Channel and the  North Sea.
The air forces had 7,500 fighters and light bombers, as well as 3,500  strategic bombers for non-stop air coverage of the invasion theater.
By the evening of June 6, more than 150,000 men had landed in Normandy.  Two million more would follow.
The western front of the Germans was unable to resist this overwhelming  force.
