Nobel-prize winner and former  dissident Alexander Solzhenitsyn arrives here Friday, but local people in this  far east port show little more than curiosity at his return after 20 years in  exile.
"I tried to read the Gulag Archipelago, but I dropped it, it's a funny  sort of language," said Dmitri Silankiev, a 17-year-old student at the naval  school here when asked about Solzhenitsyn's major opus on life in Russia's  prison camps.
"I'm too young, I don't understand his philosophy or his struggle.  Yesterday he was the only one in the right, but now one can say everybody is  in the right," said Anton Rudriev, a 23-year-old policeman.
The youth of this far eastern Russian city expressed sympathy for the  writer's struggle against totalitarianism and communist dictatorship, but that  was another time that Dmitri described simply as "the repression."
His elders, such as 48-year saleswoman Svetlana Stepanovna, voice more  gratitude to the dissident for "having opened the eyes of the world" to what  went on in the Soviet Union. But even she was unsure what role he might now  play.
Solzhenitsyn, arriving from Alaska by way of the Siberian outpost of  Magadan, where he was expected at around 0100 GMT, was due to address the  people of Vladivostok later in the day from a rostrum erected in the central  square under the Soviet emblem which still adorns the massive facade of city  hall.
His first public appearance at home after 20 years abroad, mostly in  Vermont in the eastern United States, is expected to give an idea of what sort  of reception he will receive elsewhere as he makes his way to Moscow.
"Of course, it's a challenge, but my father has been paying close  attention to all the happenings in his country and he is far better informed  than many believe," said Solzhenitsyn's 23-year-old son Yermolai, the eldest  of three boys.
Yermolai, here to prepare for his father's return, is unwilling to go into  details of his future programme, but while he stresses that Solzhenitsyn does  not intend to get involved in politics, he makes it clear he is not returning  at age 75 just to go into retirement.
"My father's return will prompt people to think about the building of their  country. If Russia did not have the need to think about its future, then why  would Solzhenitsyn bother coming back," he said.
