The age-old image of the unarmed British bobby was  further undermined Tuesday when a poll showed 70 percent of the public want  more police to carry guns.
The poll, released at the annual meeting of the Police Federation in  Brighton, followed Monday's historic announcement by Scotland Yard chief Paul  Condon that some officers would routinely and openly carry handguns.
The Gallup poll showed the public generally disenchanted with the  Dickensian image of the bobby who commanded obedience and respect by virtue of  his uniform, presence and diminutive truncheon.
Curiously, the same poll, commissioned by the 90,000-member federation,  showed that only 45 percent of police themselves wanted more guns.
And more than half of the 1,400 constables and 1,000 private citizens  polled in England and Wales said they opposed all British police carrying  firearms, the criterion that sets Britain apart from virtually every other  western nation.
"We need better protection and we need it right now. The public are right  behind us," federation vice chairman Fred Broughton told the meeting in a  presentation called, "In the Line of Fire."
Broughton said the survey disproved claims by politicians and senior  officers that the public would not accept changes to the traditional image of  the unarmed British bobby.
"They have seen us take unacceptable casualties over the course of the  past few years and their message is the same as ours - enough is enough," he  said. "Protect the Thin Blue Line, otherwise society will have no protection."
The new rules for London police came in response to the shooting of four  London policemen -- two fatally -- in the past five months.
They require specially trained officers to routinely carry either Smith  and Wesson .38 caliber revolvers or Glock 9mm semi-automatics in belt holsters  rather than in locked car vaults which previously required authorization from  a superior before a weapon could even be removed.
The move affects only about 50 officers who patrol London in the armed  response vehicles (ARVs) already used in other British cities, and Condon made  clear that routine arming of all officers was not in the offing.
Scores of officers on diplomatic and royal protection details have long  carried concealed weapons.
But the symbolism in the London move marked the first time in history that  the British public would be seeing their bobbies carrying guns on the street.
Broughton said his federation's members were tired of being "cannon fodder  in the firing line."
The growth of violence and drug trafficking, he said, had dramatically  changed the climate of law and order in Britain.
"Because of our vulnerability and fear of confronting and dealing with  violence our perception of our operational effectiveness has weakened."
David Stacey and Sean Milwood, part of an ARV unit in the South Yorkshire  police, had divergent views.
"My opinion is that whilst carrying out area duties I think we should have  easier access to at least a sidearm, either carrying it openly or having  instant access," said Milwood.
Stacey cautioned against what he called the "cart and the horse syndrome.
"If we adopt the openness of firearms, then the criminals will take that  on board and use them more readily," he said.
Criminologist Peter Waddington, a former firearms-trained police  constable, told the BBC there were diametrically opposing public myths about  policemen.
"On the one hand, there's the mythical golden age of the friendly,  respected neighborhood bobby. On the other is the Dirty Harry myth, the tough,  invulnerable, heavily armed cop who draws and guns down the bad guy.
"We can't go back to the first. We seem to be going in the direction of  the second."
