1982: Brazil, with the generation of Zico, Socrates and Falcao, at last  had the talent to live up to the legacy of the 1970 team. But after a  wonderful start they were beaten 3-2 by a Paolo Rossi hat-trick for Italy.
France, who came close to matching the flair of the Brazilians, were  beaten on penalties by Germany in a semi-final that featured the most  notorious professional foul in the history of the tournament. Patrick  Battiston was clean in on goal when German goalkeeper Harold Schumacher jumped  into him and broke his neck.
The grotesque foul meant most neutrals rejoiced at Italy's 3-1 victory in  the final but their triumph was tarnished by Claudio Gentile's brutal  treatment of Diego Maradona in the second round. The Argentinian, denied even  minimal protection by the referees, finally exploded and was sent off for a  wild foul against Brazil.
1986: The bruises of Spain were forgotten as Maradona, playing at the peak  of his powers, guided Argentina to a deserved victory in Mexico. Lothar  Matthaus' attempt to do a Gentile in the final proved in vain and Maradona had  a hand in all three goals as Argentina beat Germany 3-2. The winning goal was  scored by Jorge Burruchaga, now disgraced for his role in France's  match-fixing scandal.
In the quarter-final against England Maradona scored one goal with his  hand -- the Hand of God he later explained -- and then ran 50 yards through  the heart of the English defence for his second.
France, who had won the 1984 European championship in impressive style,  eliminated their soul mates Brazil in the quarter-finals but again fell to  Germany in the semi-finals.
1990: The World Cup could not have had a better site than Italy:  magnificent new stadiums and a football-crazy audience to fill them. But the  football failed to live up to the setting and penalty shoot-outs -- which  resolved both semi-finals -- played a huge role in deciding the outcome.
Germany were worthy winners under the leadership of Beckenbauer although  they could easily have been beaten by England in the semi-finals. That match  provided the most famous image of the tournament: Paul Gascoigne, the  inspiration of England's best performance since 1966, crying.
Maradona, his left ankle swollen and pumped full of painkillers, could  only sparkle intermittently and Argentina had to rely on the saves of Sergio  Goycochea to take them past Yugoslavia and Italy and into the final. Neutrals  watching that tedious encounter were dreading extra-time when Andreas Brehme's  late penalty put them out of their misery.
Matthaus, whose role in Mexico had been exclusively negative, had emerged  as a superb attacking midfielder and was the player of the tournament.
Holland, 1988 European champions with their AC Milan trio of Ruud Gullit,  Frank Rijkaard and Marco Van Basten, were a flop.
Cameroon, quarter-finalists with their combination of exciting attacking  and brutal defending, became the most succesful African nation yet.
