PLO chairman Yasser Arafat's reported call for  holy war to liberate Jerusalem throws into doubt the whole peace process,  Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin warned on Tuesday.
"It's a serious violation of the written commitments and calls into  question the peace process," Rabin said.
"This call is surprising and unacceptable," he told reporters.
Arafat called on Moslems to launch a holy war or Jihad to liberate  Jerusalem from Jewish rule, according to an audio tape broadcast by Israel  state radio.
"You have to come and to fight and to start the Jihad to liberate  Jerusalem, your first shrine," Arafat urged Moslems in the tape recording of a  speech he gave in a mosque in Johannesburg on May 10.
The radio said journalists were not allowed to attend the address, but it  had obtained a recording from the South African Jewish community.
"The Jihad will continue and Jerusalem is not for the Palestinian people,  it is for all the Moslem umma (nation)," Arafat said in English.
"You are responsible for Palestine and for Jerusalem before me. You have  to understand our meaning ... our main battle is Jerusalem. The first shrine  of the Moslems."
Arafat claimed he had held up the May 4 signing ceremony in Cairo of the  autonomy implementation agreement because he wanted the fate of Jerusalem  included.
"And for this I was insisting before signing to have a letter from them,  the Israelis, that Jerusalem is one of the items which has to be under  discussion.
"I was insisting on Jerusalem."
Environment Minister Yossi Sarid denied Israel had given the PLO any such  letter.
After the ceremony in Cairo, Israeli officials said Arafat had refused to  initial a map outlining the size of the Jericho enclave.
Israel has declared Jerusalem its united, eternal capital since conquering  the eastern sector from Jordan in the 1967 Middle East war.
Arafat said on the tape that Jerusalem was "not their capital, it is your  capital." And he repeatedly stressed the importance of holding talks on the  fate of Jerusalem within three years.
The September 13 Declaration of Principles for autonomy outlines that the  negotiations on a final settlement, including Jerusalem, refugees and  settlements, will take place after two years of autonomy.
