France's Orly airport is to open to flights from  London as of June 13, French Transport Minister Bernard Bosson said here  Monday.
He was speaking after meeting his British counterpart John MacGregor at  the weekend. There are to be four flights a day by British Airways and its TAT  subsidiary from London's Heathrow airport, Bosson said.
The British company Air UK will also have four flights daily into Orly but  from London's third airport at Stansted.
Air France is to make four flights daily between Orly and Heathrow.
French companies AOM and Air Liberte are seeking access to Heathrow and  "discussions are underway with London airport authorities," Bosson said.
As of the summer of 1995, planes with more than 200 seats will have to be  used during peak hours on the Paris-London route, Bosson said.
The move is likely to hurt the British companies which planned to fly low  capacity Fokker 100 and Boeing 737 planes.
The French decision ends a "war of the skies" between the French  government and British airlines which campaigned for landing rights at Orly  and threatened to begin them unilaterally on May 16.
The threat followed a European Commission order to France to open Orly  immediately to British competitors, anxious to increase their share of profits  on the London-Paris route, the busiest in Europe with three million passengers  a year.
Bosson said the government would give strong backing to AOM and Air  Liberte if they failed to win landing rights at Heathrow. The two airlines  have said they will complain to the European Commission if they are not given  landing slots.
The French minister said he believed France had reached an "honourable  solution" when all the odds were against it. "We had our backs to the wall and  we found the most intelligent formulae to provide us with maximum guarantees."
Bosson said he believed France would win its case if the British companies  made a new complaint to Brussels on the decision to limit peak hour access to  Orly to 200-seaters.
He said the decision was linked to the environment - Orly is close to the  capital Paris and the area is urbanised - and the need to limit overcrowding.
Bosson added that for the moment British Airways and TAT would have to  share the four flights a day. TAT was entitled to four flights of its own, but  in that case, it would have to be given access to Heathrow.
French companies would then be ahead of TAT in the waiting list for  Heathrow, Bosson said.
Heathrow is notoriously overcrowded and it is practically impossible for  companies which do not have longstanding landing rights to break in there.
Both British and non-British companies are victims of this situation, such  as Virgin.
