Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who died here late  Thursday aged 64, became an intensely private celebrity after her years in the  limelight as wife and widow of assassinated US president John Kennedy.
She refused to give interviews for 30 years following Kennedy's  assassination in Texas, in 1963, and her subsequent marriage and second  widowhood with Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis.
When Onassis finally did agree to give a sit-down interview last year, it  was to the industry magazine Publishers Weekly and was confined to her almost  20-year career as a book editor.
But she will be above all remembered as the youthful first lady whose  husband was assassinated at her side one sunny day in Dallas, Texas, and who,  five years later, in an act many Americans could not understand and never  forgave her for, married Onassis.
Jacqueline Bouvier was born on July 28, 1929, in Southampton, New York, to  a wealthy New York couple -- her father was a stock trader and her mother came  from a Manhattan banking family.
Her parents divorced when she was 10, but her mother remarried a few years  later a well-off investment broker.
Jacqueline did the debutante rounds, then spent a year at prestigious  Vassar University before embarking on a summer tour of Europe.
But she took her degree at George Washington University in Washington  D.C., leaving with ambitions for a career in journalism.
She won the Vogue Magazine annual Prix de Paris competition in 1951 after  submitting articles on fashion and a plan for a whole issue of the magazine,  and early the following year became the Inquiring Camera Girl for the  Washington Times-Herald newspapers.
Her early assignments included an interview with then-Senator John F.  Kennedy, whom she married in September 1953.
During the 10-year marriage, Onassis gave birth to two children who  survived into adulthood, Caroline and John, but suffered a miscarriage, a  stillborn birth and the death of son Patrick after 39 hours.
After Kennedy's election as president in November 1960 -- and through long  years afterwards -- the first lady devoted much of her time and energy to  protecting their children from the glare of publicity.
At the inauguration in 1961, she was quoted as saying, "I felt as though I  had just turned into a piece of public property. It's frightening to lose your  anonymity at 31."
The stylish first lady rapidly made her mark at the White House, carrying  out a two-million-dollar refurbishment designed to make it, in her words, "the  prettiest house in America."
But she was also struggling to cope with the effects of Kennedy's  womanizing, reportedly with actress Marilyn Monroe and others, and would  withdraw from those around her or go on shopping binges when things got too  bad, according to one biographer.
Kennedy's assassination took his wife from the realm of fame as First Lady  into that of a virtual icon as First Widow, as the whole country mourned and  identified with the brave, grieving woman and her two young children.
Onassis did her best to limit the glare of the press cameras in the years  that followed, striking a deal with the media during a skiing holiday in 1966  in which the whole family posed for pictures for 20 minutes in return for a  promise of peace.
But the public saw her as a constant reminder of the loss of Kennedy,  almost a living monument, and was not ready to abandon this image in October  1968 when she married Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis.
She was said to have married him for money, and an acrimonious battle  broke out after his death in 1975 when it transpired that he had left her  virtually nothing.
Onassis did not marry again, and in 1975 embarked on a career as a book  editor.
She began at Viking Press but left two years later when Viking published a  book she considered exploitative of the Kennedy assassination.
From 1978 until her death, Onassis worked as an editor with Doubleday,  handling about a dozen books a year, mostly non-fiction dealing with the  performing arts, especially ballet and music.
She continued to spend three days a week at the office, supplemented by  work at home, after being diagnosed with a form of lymphatic cancer called  non-Hodgkins lymphoma in early 1994.
In April she was underwent surgery for stomach ulcers in a New York  hospital.
She died at 10:15 p.m. (0215 GMT) in her Fifth Avenue apartment, in  Manhattan, with her children at her side.
