Negotiators from Angola's warring sides left here  Saturday to consult their respective leaderships on the rebel UNITA movement's  participation in a government of national unity, as peace talks reached a  crucial stage.
Spokesman for the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola  (UNITA), Jorge Valentim, told AFP before leaving for his movement's  headquarters in Huambo that the six month-old peace talks had reached the  stage where consultations with the top leadership were necessary.
He said UNITA was expecting "serious answers" from a meeting between  government negotiators and the central committee of the ruling Popular  Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) in the Angolan capital, Luanda.
"The participation of UNITA in government is an issue which we should all  take very seriously, and we hope our colleagues will come back from Angola  this time with serious answers," said Valentim.
The two sides have renewed attempts to secure an agreement on national  reconciliation after a previous bid was abandoned for four weeks last month,  when they failed to find a compromise formula on five of the 18 principles  governing reconciliation process, including power-sharing.
On Monday they reached a consensus on two of the five outstanding areas of  disagreement -- the extention of central administration to areas controlled by  UNITA and what to do with property in the hands of the rebel movement.
The warring parties also made progress on the status of UNTIA's Radio  Vorgan and the role of UNITA deputies in parliament.
Despite denials from UNITA and the government, the main stumbling block  appears to be the ministerial and provincial posts to be offered to UNITA in a  coalition government.
Last March the government brushed aside UNITA's power-sharing demands and  offered the rebel movement only four cabinet posts and six junior minister  posts, three provincial governorships --  excluding UNITA's central highlands  stronghold of Huambo -- and 20 municipal administrators posts.
The rebel movement, while accpeting some of the job offers, is holding out  for a greater share of power, as well as the governorship of Huambo.
The two sides, who resumed their war in 1992 after UNITA lost UN-supervised  general elections, are expected back to the Zambian capital Wednesday to  continue the UN-brokered talks.
