Members of the International  Whaling Commission voted Thursday to create a huge whale sanctuary in the  fertile waters surrounding the Antarctic.
Among those whales protected by the sanctuary are the estimated 1,000  remaining blue whales, which grow to 30 meters (100 feet) and can weigh 150  tonnes, and some 12,000 humpback whales.
The no-hunting zone would also benefit the much smaller minke whale, which  has replaced the blue and humpback as a target of Japanese and Norwegian  whalers.
With 23 votes in favor and Japan casting the sole dissenting vote,  delegates at the 46th meeting of the whaling commission here accepted a  modified French plan first proposed in 1992 to protect about 90 percent of  whales.
Norway, which had fought to continue whaling, was absent from the vote and  six nations abstained: China, Dominica, Grenada, South Korea, St. Vincent and  the Grenadines and the Solomon Islands.
Twenty-three of the 31 countries represented at the four-day conference  that ended Thursday had to approve a proposal for it to pass.
The final proposal creates a no-hunting zone south of 40 degrees latitude,  which runs south of Australia and Africa. It dips to 60 degrees south at South  America to spare Chilean and Argentine waters.
The Indian Ocean was declared a whale sanctuary in 1979.
The no-hunting zone replaces a 1986 moratorium on whaling ordered by the  International Whaling Commission and which was renewed periodically thereafter.
Violating the new ban could be punishable by trade sanctions.
Environmental groups have estimated that the populations of some of the  hardest hit species of whales -- such as the blue and humpback -- have been  reduced to just five percent of their populations in the past century.
France had originally proposed a total ban on hunting whales below the  40th parallel.
The Japanese argued that such a ban actually would be harmful to the  environment because it would leave the minke whale population unchecked. An  estimated 750,000 minke whales already eat roughly five times the amount of  fish humans catch.
Japan had asked it be allowed to continue hunting up to 2,000 minke whales   a year, maintaining that it would not threaten the species, which is prized  as a delicacy in that country.
