Fierce artillery battles shook Kigali on Wednesday  as a special United Nations envoy crossed the front-lines for discussions with  the rump government on the planned return of peacekeepers.
The envoy, Iqbal Riza of Pakistan, returned to Kigali after his talks with  Rwanda's rump government in their refuge 40 kilometres (25 miles) outside the  blood-sodden capital, a UN spokesman said.
The spokesman, Abdul Kabia, said the envoy, Iqbal Riza, spent several  hours with members of the self-proclaimed government at their seat in Gitarama.
Fighting flared after a partial truce which both sides had observed for  two days at the UN's request to allow Riza freedom of movement.
Two Rwandan Red Cross workers were killed and five others seriously  wounded when a shell slammed into the Red Cross compound, officials said.
Riza held talks with members of the all-Hutu government proclaimed after  the April 6 death of president Juvenal Habyarimana unleashed a tide of ethnic  slaughter in which up to 500,000 Rwandans, mostly minority Tutsis and Hutu  opposition supporters, have been butchered.
After returning from Gitarama, Riza held further talks with army  commanders, Kabia said. Further details of the discussions were not  immediately available.
The mainly Tutsi rebels had complained that Riza's meeting with the  government would lend it legitimacy, but Kabia stressed that the talks "do not  constitute recognition of the government."
Mortars thundered in the background as Kabia briefed AFP by telephone from  Kigali.
Riza met leaders of the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) on Monday, but  failed to persuade them to drop their demand for the UN to cut its planned  5,500-strong force to 2,500.
The rebels, who according to UN military officials are poised to flush  battered and demoralised government soldiers out of Kigali, seem concerned  that UN peacekeepers might arrive before they have had time to rout the army.
Thousands of people, mainly Hutus, are fleeing Kigali before the expected  RPF takeover.
Rebels are marching on Gitarama, and have cut off the government from the  capital.
The rebels have expressed fears that 5,500 soldiers could intervene in  Rwanda's raging civil war, though the planned UN force has not been mandated  to stop fighting.
Its mission would be limited to protecting civilians and escorting relief  convoys to millions of needy Rwandans who have fled their homes to escape  beer-swilling Hutu death squads blamed for much of the bloodletting.
UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali has complained that  member-states are reluctant to contribute troops for Rwanda.
Diplomats here voiced doubts about the UN's ability to muster the force  after the failure of its multinational peacekeeping mission in Somalia.
Doctors and relief workers in Kigali meanwhile toil day and night against  overwhelming odds to save the lives of thousands of wounded children and  women, encamped in squalid settlements dotted around Kigali and fast running  out of food.
"There are four Red Cross doctors in Kigali and a Ghanaian army doctor  with the UN who is performing 300 operations a day on the wounded," Roger  Carter of the UN Children's Fund said.
Since rebels captured Kigali airport and an army base Sunday, relief  workers cannot cross the front line from rebel-held areas to government  territory for fear of getting caught in crossfire.
They are now feeding only about 3,000 people instead of the 12,500  displaced people, mostly women and children and almost all wounded by  shrapnel, who had been receiving food and medical treatment, Carter said.
The UN suspended relief flights Wednesday after a bullet hole was found in  a plane on its return from Kigali.
"The government has switched off water supplies to areas not under their  control and that's made conditions even worse," Carter said.
He estimated that 50,000 to 70,000 civilians remained in Kigali with  another 200,000 in surrounding areas.
