The Palestinians took control  of Jericho and half the Gaza Strip on Friday as hundreds of PLO soldiers  poured in to police the first autonomous enclaves, sparking mass celebrations.
"As of now, you are the commander of the region. I wish you good luck,"   Israel's central region military commander General Ilan Biran told Palestine  Liberation Army (PLA) General Hajj Ismail.
They shook hands and the transfer of power in the first autonomous enclave  was complete. Twenty-seven years of occupation came to an end.
"Thank you," Ismail replied through an interpreter. "I hope we will be  successful together on the road to peace."
He called for Israel to withdrawal from all the occupied territories.
In Tunis, PLO chairman Yasser Arafat announced he intended to travel to  the West Bank town in mid-June.
The Israelis completed their pullback to border checkpoints round the  62-square-kilometre (37-sq.-mile) zone.
As the generals' handshake lingered, buses carrying about 400 policemen  edged their way through the crowds lining the road from the Allenby Bridge  over the River Jordan.
They were cheered all the way by youths shouting "Allah u Akbar" (God is  great). In the central square, hundreds more awaited. Women ululated, holding  their children up to touch the soldiers.
Bands struck up and youngsters sang and danced.
The Palestinians had already raised their red, green, white and black flag  over Jericho before dawn when official buildings and a military base were  handed over to 60 police officers who had slipped in overnight and Thursday.
Only half-a-dozen taxi-drivers were awake to witness the event. But word  spread fast and whole families flooded on to the streets to hail their heroes.
"The Israeli flag had been brought down by the time we came in," said  Ahmad Abu Saadeh, a newly-arrived policeman. "There were no more Israeli  soldiers left, we didn't shake hands with any of them."
The Palestinians took over the police station, military administration  buildings, the post office, a court house, and a nearby synagogue.
