Mary Joe Fernandez, last year's finalist, was  frogmarched out of the French Open here on Friday by promising Romanian  newcomer Irina Spirlea.
The tenth-seeded American, who took a set off Steffi Graf in last year's  final, could not cope with the athleticism and shot variety of the 20-year-old  from Bucharest and surrendered a place in the last sixteen as she crashed 4-6,  1-6.
Spirlea, who now plays either defending champion Steffi Graf or South  African Joanetta Kruger, has soared to 41st in the rankings after a recent run  of spectacular successes.
She was runner-up to France's Julie Halard in Taranto and then reached the  semi-final at the Italian Open -- beating Gabriela Sabatini and Austria's  experienced Judith Wiesner on the way.
Fernandez, who arrived in the French capital fresh from a victory at  Strasbourg, is the seventh women's seed who has failed to survive the first  week.
Spirlea found herself trailing 0-2 on an overcast centre-court. But she  was never overawed by the surroundings. And once she had found her length she  always had Fernandez under pressure.
After her win Spirlea admitted: "I had never played her before and the  other day here I saw her play just one game -- and she lost that.
"But I think I played well today. I am able to anticpate her shots.
"It's too soon to start thinking about playing Graf. First I must get over  this."
Spirlea, who was making her second appearance at Roland Garros after a  first-round defeat two years ago, started to make serious progress in  professional tennis after the Romanian Revolution.
"Before the Revolution we play only in local tournaments in the East. But  afterwards we can travel."
Spirlea said she didn't care what surface she played on.
"I like all surfaces. And soon I play on grass for the first time. I am  going to Eastbourne and then I shall play Wimbledon."
Fernandez shrugged off the defeat.
"She played really well," she said, adding: "She reminds me a bit of  Steffi. She likes to run round her backhand and hit forehands and she is a  very good athlete."
Referring to her own form Fernandez admitted: "I'm still not really match  tough. To win you have to play the big points well and that's what she did  today."
kd94
