Rwandan rebel and army commanders agreed Monday to  allow the evacuation of civilians and to resume UN-brokered ceasefire talks  Thursday.
The accord was announced by the commanders after their first face-to-face  meeting at the Amahoro Hotel.
UN troops meanwhile evacuated hundreds of civilians trapped for weeks  behind the battlelines to safe areas, after an early morning delay caused by  fierce artillery duels and difficulties in obtaining guarantees of security  from both sides, UN officials said.
Mainly-Hutu government supporters were driven in white UN trucks from the  Amahoro stadium, in rebel-held territory, to government-controlled areas south  of the embattled capital Kigali.
Tutsis and Hutu opposition sympathisers holed up in the Mille Collines  Hotel, in an army-controlled sector, were meanwhile escorted to neighbourhoods  held by the mainly-Tutsi rebels.
The operation went ahead after the commanders at the UN-brokered talks  provided the assurances of security demanded by the UN and agreed to cooperate  in further evacuations, said UN military spokesman Major Jean-Guy Plante.
At a joint news conference after the five-hour talks, the rebel and  government negotiators blasted each other for reneging on previous accords,  but announced that they had agreed that "people must be free to move."
Col. Frank Mugambage, representing the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF),  demanded an end to "planned massacres perpetrated by people in power," which  he said were still going on, before entering substantive ceasefire  negotiations to open Thursday.
Up to half a million people have been butchered in massacres triggered by  the April 6 death of president Juvenal Habyarimana. Much of the slaughter has  been blamed on pro-government militias.
Mugambaga also demanded an end to pro-government radio broadcasts which he  said "incite murder."
But Brigadier-General Marcel Gatsinzi, deputy armed forces chief, rejected  responsibility for Rwanda's seven-week bloodbath, though he said some soldiers  may have committed "abuses."
"We do not support massacres, regardless of where they come from," Gatsinzi  said.
"Certain militias have been implicated (in massacres) and certain  civilians, but it is not the army as a whole," he said.
"The massacres were not organised but a spontaneous outburst. Some  militias went out of control when they heard the news that the president had  been assassinated."
The thud of mortar shells and the crackle of machine-gun fire intensified  after dark outside the Meridien Hotel, left without running water but packed  with UN soldiers, refugees and a handful of journalists.
The heaviest fighting Monday was reported around a paramilitary police  camp surrounded by rebels who pounded it with an artillery and mortar barrage.
Rebel gunners also bombarded army positions around the Kadhafi corner on  Kigali's western fringe.
The rebels clearly have the military advantage after capturing Kigali  airport and a big army base nearby more than a week ago, UN military sources  said.
"They can take the city any time they want, probably in a matter of days,"  a senior UN military officer said.
Rebels closing in on Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25 miles) southwest of the  capital, where the self-proclaimed government has been holed up since last  month, were within 10 kilometers (six miles) of the town Monday, UN sources  said.
According to the Red Cross up to 400,000 people have swarmed out of Kigali  in the past week, most heading south on the Gitarama road.
Gerry McCarthy of the UN Children's fund UNICEF estimated that only 40,000  to 50,000 people remain in Kigali.
The rebel-held north is virtually deserted, with small groups of rebels  guarding abandoned villages.
Few civilians are seen and the roads are empty except for the occasional  truck-load of rebel fighters, some as young as 12.
As many as half a million Rwandans have sought sanctuary in neighbouring  countries with about 320,000 in Tanzania alone.
At least two million people are on the move inside Rwanda, but relief  agencies can only get desperately-needed food and medicine to the fortunate  few in safe areas.
Few UN officials seem confident of an end to the fighting despite the  agreement on talks, and say the rebels are preparing a big offensive. However,  the army seems ready to counter-attack in force, they say.
The RPF's 20,000 fighters are still believed to be out-numbered by some  35,000 government soldiers, despite desertions from army ranks and the flight  of some militiamen from Kigali.
