Jennifer Capriati will be treated for drug  abuse at a clinic that offers art and yoga classes, but not tennis, her lawyer  said Thursday.
"She's optimistic," lawyer John Ross told WPLG-TV in an exclusive  interview. "She is very cooperative with respect to the programme she is in.
"I am hopeful and fairly confident that Jennifer will come through this,  that her judgment will improve. If my predictions are correct, whatever  Jennifer decides to do, she will be a champion at it. She's a good kid."
Capriati was arrested Monday at a Coral Springs, Florida, motel on a  misdemeanor charge of possessing marijuana.
Tom Wineland, a 20-year-old drifter, was one of two other people arrested  in the incident.
He was charged with possession of suspected crack cocaine, and later said  he saw Capriati use crack, heroin, alcohol and painkillers during a two-day  drug party.
"This is coming from a crack head," Ross said of the charges. "Examine the  source and make a responsible decision as to whether or not you think it's  credible."
Police said they had no evidence Capriati used crack or heroin.
The incident resulted in the cancellation of Capriati's endorsement  contract with Italian sporting goods manufacturer Diadora, who had sponsored  her since before she turned pro in 1990 at the age of 13 years and 11 months.
Capriati's agent, Barbara Perry, said Capriati's parents had visited her  at the Mount Sinai Medical Center.
"They're very much together and behind their daughter," Perry said. "Under  the circumstances I think they're doing very well."
The Mount Sinai rehabilitation programme opened in 1984. It has 30 beds in  shared rooms, and patients undergo psychological testing and counseling and  take part in creative activities.
Capriati has not been seen in public since she was arrested.
The 1992 Olympic champion, who became the youngest Grand Slam  semi-finalist in history at the 1990 French Open, last played tournament  tennis at the US Open last autumn, where she lost in the first round.
