Sudan, gripped by a relentless civil war, faces  mass starvation unless donors increase food aid to two million needy  southerners, international aid agencies warned Tuesday.
"The Sudanese are on the brink of a famine as potentially devastating as  the one experienced in Somalia in 1992 (which killed an estimated 300,000  people)," said Gabriel Salazar of the French medical charity Medecins Sans  Frontieres (MSF; Doctors without Borders).
South Sudan has suffered more than a decade of famine, stemming from  drought and the displacement of millions of southerners by 11 years of war  between mainly Christian and animist southern rebels and the Islamic  fundamentalist military government in Khartoum.
Addressing a joint news conference here, representatives from MSF, the  British charity Oxfam, Save the Children, the UN Children's Fund and the World  Food Programme said they had about 20,000 tonnes of food stored in Kenya and  Uganda but had no money to airlift it to Sudan.
It costs 1,000 dollars to fly a tonne of food into the south, a vast  undeveloped region of swamps and savannah with few roads.
The agencies appealed to donors to finance an emergency food airlift to  the 600,000 most vulnerable people in the three southern provinces of Bahr  el-Ghazal, Jonglei and Eastern Equatoria.
"The failure of the international community to finance the air delivery of  this food from Kenya to Sudan within the next three weeks will result in a  famine that could be as bad as what Somalia experienced," Salazar said.
According to MSF, 45 percent of southerners are malnourished, 10 percent  severely. In the Akon region, 40 percent of infants aged from 6 months to 17  months were believed to have died of malnutrition or diseases exacerbated by  lack of food over the past few months.
Sudan's emergency is being overshadowed by wholesale slaughter in Rwanda  and the war in the former Yugoslavia, the aid workers said.
Peace talks in Nairobi between the rebel Sudan People's Liberation Army  and the government have been adjourned until July.
The army, which launched a major offensive at the end of last year, is  steadily gaining ground against the divided rebels, who splintered into two  warring factions in 1991.
