A Polynesian race many deny exists, which 150  years ago was driven to the edge of extinction by a genocidal war, might win  justice after the High Court here ruled they were entitled to seek  compensation for lost lands.
The Moriori lived on the isolated Chatham Islands, 870 kilometres (539  miles) from here, until 1835 when the Te Ati Awa Maori tribe arrived from New  Zealand and began slaughtering them.
Tommy Solomon was even referred to as the "last" Moriori when he died in  1933.
Now the approximately 200 remaining Moriori have filed a suit with a  quasi-judicial body seeking a return of lands. Moriori Charlie Preece says his  race is getting stronger and the tribunal, by agreeing to hear their land  claims, was giving them recognition as a race.
"It's taken 160 years to get this far. Now we want to do things that  should have been taken care of a long time ago," he said.
But Maoris, claiming a right of conquest and the fact that the Native Land  Court last century had refused to recognise Moriori, had gone to the High  Court seeking to stop the hearing.
The Moriori story, often marked by accusations of racism and bias, has  only rarely been debated publicly and is one of the country's darkest secrets.
Whites used to claim Moriori were a peaceful race who occupied mainland  New Zealand until the Maori arrived and exterminated them. Although there is  no evidence of Moriori populations in mainland New Zealand, this version of  history is used as a justification for the later white occupation.
But pro-Maori academics claim there was no such race as the Moriori, and  that the group living on the Chathams were simply descendants of Maori  fishermen taken by wind and tide to the islands.
Oddly, the Maori claim Moriori have no right to complain because they are  a conquered people, but such rationale on mainland New Zealand advanced by  whites towards Maori would be regarded as unacceptable.
Two years ago a joint New Zealand-Thai study of skulls revealed marked  differences between Maori and Moriori.
Whites first visited the Chathams in 1791, then occupied by an estimated  2000 Moriori. Whalers and sealers followed, bringing diseases which killed off  hundreds of Moriori.
The Moriori were known as pacifists and when word of this reached Te Ati  Awa Maori in 1835 they seized a ship in Wellington harbour and sailed to the  Chathams.
"Moriori, A People Rediscovered" by Michael King, a book published in 1990  and for the first time outlining what happened, told of around 1,400 deaths in  the wake of the Maori arrival.
One Moriori said they were taken prisoner: "The women and children were  bound, and many of these, together with the men, were killed and eaten, so  that the corpses lay scattered in the woods and over the plains. Those who  were spared from death were herded like swine, and killed from year to year."
By the 1870s there were fewer than 100 Moriori left, and the Maori Land  Court of that time held the Chathams to be Maori land, by right of conquest.
