The fourth anniversary of the 1990 general  elections, touted as the freest in Burma's history although the opposition's  landslide win was never recognized, went virtually unnoticed in Rangoon Friday.
The ruling military junta, known as the State Law and Order Restoration  Council (SLORC), remains firmly in control of the country while opposition  leaders, including Aung San Suu Kyi, remain in confinement.
"Politics, at least the party kind, is considered a dirty word here --  best left out of your thoughts," one Rangoon resident commented Friday, while  admitting that the election anniversary had completely slipped his mind.
Since the junta's takeover in September 1988, it has stressed economic  development. A 16-month-old constitutional convention the junta sponsored to  define future political structures has been in recess since April 11.
The SLORC, while vowing to turn Burma into a peaceful, modern and  prosperous state, insisted that the constitution should guarantee a leadership  role for the military.
It was business as usual for Rangoon's five million residents, whose  state-owned dailies Friday were full of optimistic economic reports and little  else.
Highlighting a visit by Indonesian businessmen to Rangoon, the New Light  of Myanmar enthused there was "much competition" to invest in Burma, thanks to  the policies of the SLORC.
"Myanmar, the heartland of Asia, will soon prove to be the hub of economic  activity," the newspaper said. Myanmar is the official name of Burma.
The national planning and economic development minister, Brigadier General  David Abel, told the Indonesian businessmen Thursday that 84 companies from 16  countries had so far invested more than one billion US dollars in Burma.
Investors have been coming in despite a US-led policy of Western nations  to isolate Burma as a means of putting pressure on the government to make  political and human rights concessions, observers noted.
Aung San Suu Kyi, charismatic leader of opposition forces and daughter of  Burma's late independence hero, Aung San, has been under house arrest since  1989 despite international appeals for her release.
The National League for Democracy (NLD) that she led scored a landslide  victory in the 1990 polls, but the military refused to recognize the victory  and cracked down on the opposition.
Neighboring countries in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations  (ASEAN) follow a policy of constructive engagement with the view that contacts  can better effect change.
