Hundreds of jubilant residents  finally tracked down a vanguard of 20 Palestinian police officers as they  waited outside Jericho Thursday ready to take over from the Israeli army.
Another 40 officers and 386 policemen, formerly based in Iraq, are due to  follow Friday, as the Israelis relinquish control of the West Bank town to the  Palestinians under the autonomy deal signed on May 4.
Military sources said the officers will be part of the Jericho  coordination office in charge of joint Israeli-Palestinian patrols in the  area.
"If all goes well, all the Jericho region will be in Palestinian hands by  Friday afternoon," said Colonel Herzl, a member of the commmittee whose full  name was withheld for security reasons.
It was only after nightfall that residents finally managed to find the  officers who were spending their first night in the West Bank in the shadow of  the Jewish settlement Vered Jericho.
Many townspeople who had gathered earlier on the main road into Jericho to  welcome the men had spent a frustrating day chasing around as the police were  taken on a tour to inspect the Jericho region.
But despite the late hour more than 200 men, women and youngsters  eventually turned out to give the officers a hero's welcome.
The officers, new rifles hung across their shoulders embraced  well-wishers, as women ululated with joy. The night promised to be long as  more people heard of the officers' arrival and drove up to the farm.
"We would have waited up all night to see them," said Musbah Khalil, 25.
"This is a golden moment. Now I really feel I'm alive, not like before."
General Yom Tov Samia, head of the Israeli delegation to the  Israeli-Palestinian military liaison committee, said earlier there were still  "details about security to sort out" after joint talks about the Israeli  pullout.
But he added they had "studied the problem of joint patrols and we are  ready to leave."
The Palestinian officers, who were each given a Klashnikov or a Carl  Gustav rifle on leaving the border, had lunched with senior Israeli officers,  then inspected the 62 square kilometers (25 square miles) that are to come  under Palestinian autonomy.
The Israeli army is also redeploying in Gaza to protect the 4,000 settlers  who remain there and pulled out of Rafah town earlier Thursday, where the  first 300 police have already arrived.
Palestinian police chief Nasr Yussef said the Israeli pullout from Gaza and  Jericho would be finished by next Wednesday.
"Our forces are ready to come immediately. Moreover we have the feeling  that we are finally in our own country," Yussef said.
Earlier a PLO official told AFP that more than 300 members of the new  Palestinian police force bound for the Gaza Strip were stuck at the Rafah  border terminal with Egypt.
He refused to elaborate on the delay, but said the Israelis had not handed  out the application forms for identity cards for the men, ex-soldiers of the  PLO's Palestine Liberation Army.
But about 300 police crossed the Allenby Bridge from Jordan late Thursday  and headed for the Gaza Strip via the West Bank and Israel, a Palestinian  spokesman said in Amman
They will be the first armed Palestinians to cross Israeli territory under  Israeli army escort.
Unlike the overcrowded Gaza Strip with its population of about 800,000,  the Jericho police are taking over a quiet oasis of 15,000 people, which is  known as both the oldest and lowest town in the world.
Meanwhile, the Islamic Resistance Movement HAMAS shot and wounded an  Israeli soldier and a truck driver in the first two attacks on the Gaza Strip  since autonomy was launched a week ago.
