Russian deputies on Friday overwhelmingly approved  a bill for Russia to unilaterally lift sanctions against the rump Yugoslavia  despite an international embargo.
The action by the Duma, the lower house of parliament, came after the US  Senate voted Thursday that Washington should unilaterlaly allow US arms  shipments to the mainly Moslem Bosnian government in defiance of a 1991 UN  arms embargo.
With Russia a traditional ally of Serbia, lower house deputies have spoken  out before in favor of the rump Yugoslavia, but Friday's vote marked the first  time they have gone so far as to approve a bill -- in a crushing vote of 226  to 31 -- along these lines.
Friday's Duma resolution stipulated that in the event of a "unilateral  lifting by a state of the embargo on arms deliveries to Bosnia," Russia would  have to respond with "adequate measures that could go as far as raising the  question of a unilateral exit from the sanctions regime."
The draft, approved on first reading, must be put to a second vote in two  weeks before it can go onto the upper hour, or Federation Council.
Though it was too early to tell whether it would make it through to law,  analysts said Friday's vote signaled a new defiance by the  conservative-dominated Duma towards Russian President Boris Yeltsin.
In earlier votes, the Duma voted overwhelmingly to condemn NATO air  strikes against Serb positions on April 9 and 10, or only urged the Russian  government to work for an end to lifting UN-imposed trade and arms sanctions  against rump Yugoslavia.
Friday's bill was laid before parliament on April 15 by a deputy from the  pro-communist Agrarian Party, and backed by Vladimir Zhirinovski's  ultranationalists and the Party of Democratic Russia of Nikolai Travkin, who  recently became a minister without portfolio.
The US Senate vote embarrassed the US administration, which says Bosnian  government forces should be allowed to defend themselves but wants any change  in sanctions to be multilateral.
The Senate move was seen as unlikely to be confirmed by Congress, but was  taken as a warning about Senate discontent over President Bill Clinton's  foreign policy.
Since the UN adopted sanctions against the rump Yugoslavia in 1992, the  Russian president has tried to navigate between pressure from the  international community and pressure from strong pro-Serb forces in parliament.
Deputy Vladimir Isakov, who is a legal expert and fierce opponent of the  Yeltsin government, said recently he had found a "hole" in the constitution  that would allow the Duma to override the president's foreign policy.
The article, number 80 in the constitution adopted last December, says the  Russian president conducts foreign policy "in line with federal legislation."
