The United Nations is to send a food convoy to a  camp in southern Yemen where thousands of Somali refugees who fled their own  civil war are trapped in crossfire, an official said Thursday.
But Rolf Guldberg, UN High Commissioner for Refugees representative in  Sanaa, told AFP the Somalis were in an "active war zone" and the convoy could  only leave once fighting subsided.
He hoped it would set off from Sanaa in the next few days "if possible  tomorrow," Friday, but the situation at the camp was dangerous.
The United Nations had no precise figure on the total number of Somali  refugees or casualties but would be trying to provide food for 4,000, the  esimated number there before the Yemeni civil began on May 5.
The Somalis fled to Yemen to escape the civil war which erupted in their  Horn of Africa country three years ago, but have now found themselves caught  up in the Yemeni conflict.
The refugees were either still in the al-Kud camp on a beach near  Zinjibar, 50 kilometers (32 miles) northeast of Aden, or were sheltering at a  nearby village.
Hundreds of them were killed in crossfire, according the refugees  themselves, and their plight has been described as desperate.
Meanwhile, the United Nations is also providing aid for some 1,500 Yemeni  refugees who fled fighting and ended up in the southern stronghold Aden.
"We have enough food for refugees in Aden," said Guldberg.
A senior official from the International Committee of the Red Cross in  Sanaa meanwhile said the organisation had started counting prisoners of war  and visiting detention centres, with inspections expected to be completed  early next week.
Arnold Luethold, regional ICRC director for the Arabian peninsula, gave no  precise figure for war casualties or internees.
But he said ICRC visits to the internees were "going well" and they had  counted a large number, "beyond hundreds."
Red Cross officials were also visiting civilians detained in the conflict,  which has entered a third week with no end in sight.
It would launch an international appeal to raise funds for victims of the  civil war "probably early next week."
The Red Cross in the north was unable to coordinate with ICRC workers in  the south but joint operations were being undertaken with the local Red  Crescent and the French aid organisdation Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors  Without Borders,) Luethold said.
The civil war is being waged between northern troops loyal to President Ali  Abdallah Saleh and southern forces backing Vice-President Ali Salem al-Baid.
It erupted after four years of strained union between the conservative  North Yemen and Marxist South Yemen.
