Crimean forces have taken preventive  measures against possible strikes by Ukrainian troops but are not on a state  of alert, Crimean Interior Minister Valery Kuznetsov said Sunday.
He spoke ahead of talks Tuesday in Moscow with Ukrainian officials to try  to defuse a crisis that has flared on the Crimean peninsula.
Tension between Crimea, populated mainly by ethnic Russians, and the  authorities in Kiev reached fever pitch Friday when deputies in the regional  legislature restored a 1992 constitution tantamount to a declaration of  independence.
Ukrainian lawmakers retaliated by issuing a 10-day ultimatum to Crimea to  withdraw the declaration and issued vague threats that force could be used if  the secessionist republic refused.
But General Kuznetsov said Sunday there was no state of alert in Crimea  and that the situation there was "normal."
"We have only taken preventive measures," the minister told the Interfax  news agency.
Kuznetsov said that on Saturday he had received reports that the Ukrainian  national guard had been ordered to take control of radio and television  buildings, the Crimean central bank, government and parliament buildings and  the central telephone exchange in the capital Simferopol.
In response he had given the order to Crimean interior ministry forces to  "increase their vigilance." Police were also guarding the television station  and parliament, he said.
"Everything will remain calm if Ukraine does not ignite the situation,"  the minister continued, adding "the Crimean people have the right to choose  freely, but within the framework of Ukraine's territorial integrity."
Kuznetsov said, "the hysteria around the Crimean parliament's decision (to  restore the 1992 constitution) is not coming from all Ukrainians but is being  stirred up by forces which want to torpedo the (Ukrainian) presidential  elections June 26."
Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk has been seeking for several months to  get the conservative-dominated parliament in Kiev, which opposes his policies,  to suspend June 26 presidential elections which he is expected to lose.
Crimea -- a republic of 2.5 million residents, around two thirds of whom  are ethnic Russians -- has been moving towards closer ties with Moscow since  the January election of Russian nationalist Yuri Meshkov to the presidency.
The Crimean peninsula was part of Russia until then-Soviet leader Nikita  Khrushchev handed over the territory to Ukraine in 1954 as a "gift"  celebrating the friendship between the two Slav peoples.
Russia has warned Ukraine against using force against Crimea in the  current crisis.
On Sunday Simferopol was largely quiet, with no special police or military  force visible in the streets.
Outside the parliament building, where Meshkov has his office, about 100  Russians rallied waving Russian and Crimean flags.
"No one ever asked us our opinion, Meshkov is the first one to respond to  public opinion," said pensioner Valentina Chugayev.
Sergei Nikulin, leader of a parliamentary faction called the Russian Bloc  and a member of the delegation to Tuesday's talks in Moscow, insisted that  Crimea was not trying to break away from Ukraine.
"It was never our intention to pull Crimea out of Ukraine," he told  Interfax, stressing however that the local legislature would not go back on  its vote Friday.
