Iran launched a virulent attack on the Saudi  government on Tuesday after cancelling an anti-US rally by its pilgrims in  Mecca.
The head of the Iranian pilgrimage delegation, Mohammad Mohammadi  Reyshahri, said in a message to spiritual guide Ayatollah Ali Khamenei that  the demonstration should be cancelled "following deployment of Saudi police  and soldiers and irresponsible acts and provocation by Saudi authorities."
Khamenei replied by saying he agreed that the "Deliverance from the  Infidels" demonstration be cancelled.
Tehran stressed it had cancelled the rally, which was to be held in front  of the Iranian pilgrimage quarter on Tuesday, to "avoid a bloodbath."
The official Iranian news agency reported Monday that commando units,  equipped with grenade-launchers and machine-guns, had besieged the pilgrimage  camp, and were preventing cars from entering its parking-lot.
The deployment followed repeated calls by Reyshahri to hold the anti-US  and anti-Israel demonstration, despite a Saudi ban.
On Tuesday, Iran's speaker of parliament Ali Akbar Nategh Nuri virulently  denounced the ban, describing the Saudi leaders, for the first time in several  years, as the "Hijaz rulers," implying he did not recognise them as guardians  of the holy sites.
Nategh Nuri blasted Saudi Arabia's "American brand of Islam," a term which  had become nearly obsolete since the death of the spiritual leader, Ayatollah  Ruhollah Khomeini.
Riyadh's "intention in having banned the rally was to please the  Americans," the speaker told the parliament. "They want to protect the  interest of great powers. This is the main characteristic of American Islam."
Nategh Nuri's comments were matched by deputies, with some shouting "death  to Saudi Arabia."
Newspapers of all political persuasions also condemned the ban, accusing  the Saudi leaders of taking the "repugnant" decision under pressure from  Israel and the United States.
"The Saudi regime showed once again that it does not deserve to be the  guardian of a holy place," Salam, a daily close to the Islamic radicals, said  in comments reminiscent of the period before relations were normalised between  the two countries.
The "Deliverance from the Infidels" rally, a tradition among the Shiite  Moslems during the pilgrimage, has been dominated by anti-US and anti-Israel  protests since the 1979 Islamic revolution in Iran.
The demonstrations, which at times been also directed against the Riyadh  rulers, have triggered violent clashes with the Saudi police, the most violent  being in 1987, when 400 pilgrims, including 275 Iranians, were killed.
The new crisis could deal a major blow to the efforts by the two countries  to improve ties, and to the possibility of holding a summit between King Fahd  and President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani.
When it first broke out last year, the news of the summit provoked fierce  opposition among the Islamic hardliners in Iran, with some groups vowing to  kill Fahd if he stepped on the Iranian soil.
