Pakistan's opposition on Tuesday accused  President Farooq Ahmed Leghari of receiving 15 million rupees (500,000  dollars) in kickbacks in a multi-million dollar banking scandal.
The government labelled the accusation malicious propaganda, after  opposition leader Nawaz Sharif attacked the president at a news conference.
Earlier, the speaker of the National Assembly had not allowed Sharif to  raise the issue in the house, saying the rules barred any discussion on the  conduct of the head of state.
Sharif said Leghari had received the money from the private Mehran Bank in  the name of fake companies prior to the general elections in October, while he  was a leader of the now governing Pakistan People's Party (PPP).
Leghari, currently in the United States on a private visit, was elected  president in November following the victory of the PPP in legislative polls,  and the election of party leader Benazir Bhutto as prime minister.
Sharif, a former prime minister, said the funds "looted" by Leghari were  used in the general (legislative) election as well as for "horse-trading" in  the presidential election.
Younus Habib, former chief executive of Pakistan's scandal-marred Mehran  Bank, is in jail on charges of misappropriating billions of rupees and doling  out big sums to politicians and generals.
Bhutto has promised a judicial probe into the activities at the Mehran  Bank, which was established in 1991 when Sharif was prime minister.
At his news conference, Sharif released what he said was documentary  evidence of the involvement of Leghari in the banking scam.
In rebuttal, Interior Minister Nasreeullah Babar said in a statement: "The  allegations are totally baseless and unsubstantiated."
Babar said Leghari and his family had sold their large farm in the town of  Dera Ghazi Khan to a business group, and had had the payment of 15 million  rupees put into their account in the Mehran Bank.
He said it was a "legitimate" transaction, adding that Leghari had not  committed any "illegal act."
"The honesty and integrity of the president is above board," he said.
