Race drivers look like walking  billboards because, without sponsors, they would just be walking.
Corporate sponsors underwrite the cost of Indy-car racing in exchange for  advertising, hoping to link their product to sporting success.
For Lyn St. James, a second-row starter in Sunday's Indianapolis 500, a  strong qualifying effort meant adding sponsor McDonalds for a reported 100,000  dollars. The one-race deal brings much-needed money to car owner Dick Simon  and lets the restaurant chain attach itself to her effort to be Indy's first  female champion.
"If she even finishes in the top five, she makes history. We would turn  the world upside down," Simon said. "We would be in the history books and  McDonald's would be there."
The quest for such stars means more than 100 million dollars a year being  spent by series sponsors, with the biggest prize being here at the  Indianapolis 500.
Racing costs are major. Teams spend between three and 15 million dollars  in a season. That's 420,000 dollars for British-made chassis by Lola, Reynard  and Penske, 700,000 to 800,000 dollars in engines and 675,000 dollars in spare  parts before you figure the cost of hiring drivers, mechanics and support  staff.
"It's a very expensive sport and there is always a climate of  uncertainty," St. James said. "You ask major corporations to make a commitment  and all I could get together is enough for one race. I'm already looking to  1995."
Total prize money for teams in the 33-car field last year was 7.68 million  dollars. But Indy-car officials estimate the advertising benefits from last  year's Indy 500 were worth 10 times as much to sponsors -- 77.7 million  dollars.
"We're proud to be associated with Lyn and her efforts to make history as  the first woman to win the Indy 500," said McDonald's spokesman David Paro.  "We enjoy funding efforts where persistence shows."
The race will be seen on television by an estimated 408 million households  in 75 nations, including live coverage in Australia, Japan, South America and  Europe as well as US markets.
Many teams race only at Indy, an effort that still takes at least 350,000  dollars. Teams such as Roger Penske Racing will spend millions of dollars  here, including the time and effort to develop the Mercedes engine for use  only here.
"Don't let anybody tell you we came in here with a big bank roll," Penske  said. "That's absolutely not the case. If you look at the engine, it has fewer  parts. And from a cost standpoint, we have substituted the Mercedes for some  engines we would have leased from Ilmor."
Mercedes dominated Indy speeds by taking advantage of a loophole and  designing an engine for this race alone. Low budget efforts try to run a team  here for 350,000 dollars. If you bring the sponsor money and talent to drive,  folks like Simon will provide the car.
"When you add a major worldwide sponsor, the benefit is to everyone,"  Simon said. "They will be able to market this sponsorship through the end of  the year. That benefits all the other sponsors."
St. James will happily add the McDonald's logo and repaint her car in the  company's colors.
"It's great to have them as a partner," she said. "Bringing them in will  bring more attention to women in sports."
