China is to postpone a large number of share  issues until next year as the government tries to shore up the depression in  the country's two fledgling stock markets, the China Daily said Monday.
According to a circular issued Friday by the watchdog State Council  Securities Committee "a considerable number" of stocks scheduled to be issued  this year will be postponed until 1995 as the committee moves to standardise  the operations of listed companies and stock trading.
The Chinese stock market is still in its infancy and consequently its  development should be a "step-by-step process pursued on an experimantal  basis," the circular said.
The new attitude is a far cry from the heady days of 1990 when pent-up  demand for stocks spelled overnight success for China's first stock market in  Shanghai, followed by a second in Shenzhen, abutting Hong Kong, in 1991.
High interest rates and rampant inflation have stifled turnover on both  stock markets this year, with few indications of a short-term recovery.
Under the terms of the committee circular, listing companies must  henceforth undergo a six-month long coaching period organised by relevant  departments before beginning their public stock offerings.
The coaching period, which effectively postpones all issues planned for  the second half of 1994 to the following year, is aimed at helping firms  develop mechanisms commensurate with a share-holding company.
In 1996, the period will be extended to 12 months -- with six months  guidance given either side of the issuing date.
At the same time, the government is to strengthen supervision of  share-holding companies and stock trading, which until now have largely been  subject to the whims of the local authorities in Shanghai and Shenzhen.
Guidelines for the transformation of management will be worked out to  prevent continued confusion over the responsibilities of board directors and  major shareholders.
The trading system will also be improved to curb rampant market  manipulation and insider-trading, which have dogged both bourses since their  inception.
