Norway severely deflated Terry Venables' England  bubble in a drab goalless draw at Wembley on Sunday.
England may feel hard done by that a David Platt tap in on 76 minutes was  disallowed by Danish referee Kim Nielsen, who ordered Alan Shearer to retake  the curling free kick that had rattled off the post, beyond Thorstvedt's  grasp, and into the skipper's path.
However, the home side, despite having most of the possession, did little  to warm up their 64,327 fans, who, fired up by the 5-0 midweeek win over  Greece, braved a miserably wet and cold afternoon.
Norway gave the impression of treating the game as more of a training  exercise for the World Cup finals, where they will go at England's expense.
Egil Olsen's side rarely moved out of second gear and only twice, late in  the game, did they give England goalkeeper David Seaman any cause for concern,  most notably when Sorloth got between two defenders to fire an overhead kick  just wide.
The visitors, stubborn and well-organised, showed themselves to be masters  of getting behind the ball and denying England space in the Norwegian half.
England's most promising moves came in the first half, with Anderton and  Jones having some success on the right.
But on the occasions they found their way through the Norwegian defensive  maze, the final ball was invariably too close to Thorstvedt.
It was a huge anti-climax for Venables and his side before a summer break  spent trying to avoid television, radio and newspaper back pages.
The England coach has rightly stressed that it is still very early days  and a disappointing end-of-season display will help play down the  euphoria-induced expectations of his first four months.
However, there is no reason for England not still to look ahead with  optimism to hosting the 1996 European Championship finals.
His new system did not so much fail as stall against strong resistance.
His Norwegian counterpart, who made four substitutions, including a  sentimental last five minutes for veteran fourth choice goalkeeper Ola  By-Rise, will be happy to have given watching Republic of Ireland manager Jack  Charlton a few things to chew over before their sides meet in New York in four  weeks.
dm94am
