Hongkong Telecommunications Ltd. reported  Thursday an 18 percent rise in net profit from a year earlier to 7.6 billion  Hong Kong dollars (969 million US) for the year ending March due to robust  telecommunications traffic with China.
It said earnings per share also rose 18 percent to 67.8 cents over last  year, and the directors recommended a final dividend of 27.6 cents, making a  total dividend of 51.0 cents for the year, up 18 percent on the previous year.
Despite an eight percent price reduction in international calls last  August, Hongkong Telecom said total international turnover rose by 12 percent  to 15.2 billion dollars, accounting for almost 63 percent of total turnover of  24.3 billion dollars, with China contributing almost half of Hong Kong's  international traffic.
The firm also said it was going to cut international calls by a further  two percent this year.
Revenues from local telephone services also grew by 14 percent to 3.3  billion dollars, said the telecommunication giant, which installed its three  millionth line a few days ago.
Commenting on the results, Linus Cheung, chief executive of Hongkong  Telecom, said last year was "a very challenging and eventful year."
"The future holds both challenge and immense opportunities for Hongkong  Telecom," Cheung said.
"The changing market environment presents the company with some challenges  whilst the investment opportunities emerging in both Hong Kong and China bode  well for the future of the company," he said.
"We are hopeful that China will relax its rules to encourage foreign  investments into its telecommunications infrastructure to achieve its  objective of installing 100 million lines by the year 2000."
Cheung said the company's investment was expected to reach four billion  dollars this year, after investing 3.5 billion dollars in 1993-94.
Besides diversifying and improving local services, Hongkong Telecom has  also been actively pursuing opportunities in the region. It has set up offices  in Beijing, Guangzhou, Singapore, Taipei and Seoul, with two more planned in  Shanghai and Vietnam this year.
