The Honda Motor Co. Ltd. saw consolidated pre-tax  earnings fall by 47 percent from the figure in 1992-3 to 46.9 billion yen (455  million dollars) in the year to March, the company said on Friday.
The company said worldwide sales fell by seven percent to 3,863 billion  yen in the same period. They were adversely affected by a rise of the yen and  a fall in car sales in both Europe and Japan.
But Honda forecast that earnings for this year would improve with net  consolidated profit projected to jump to 52 billion yen, reversing the 36  percent decline to 24 billion yen in the latest year. Sales are expected to  recover to about 4,000 billion yen. A pre-tax profit forecast was not  available.
"Because of the positive effect deriving from our own efforts in various  areas, coupled with the recovering US auto market, it can reasonably be  expected that Honda's financial performance has bottomed out," the company  said.
Honda also announced changes in its global organisation including the  integration of all activities into four regional operations covering Japan,  Asia, the Americas and Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Each would have  more autonomy and report directly to Honda president Nobuhiko Kawamoto.
In the latest year, Honda said revenue from its global car operations  dropped by 7.5 percent to 3,033 billion yen while motorcycle revenue fell by  3.9 percent to 547 billion yen. An increase in revenues from trading and  finance activities were offset by a decline in sales of power products.
"Declining auto sales in Japan and Europe, coupled with the strengthened  yen, had a negative impact on net sales," the company said.
Honda said the overall decline in sales came despite a "steady increase"  in its motorcycle business, mainly reflecting favourable sales in Asia and a  recovery in the company's auto business in North America in the second half.
"In addition to lower revenue, operating income suffered from the strong  yen, offsetting the positive contributions from continued rationalisation and  cost-cutting efforts, lower research and development expenses, and decreased  selling, general and admistrative expenses.
"Consolidated net income consequently declined, notwithstanding an  improvement in equity income from affiliated companies," it said.
Honda said sales of cars fell by 2.2 percent to 1.75 million units  worldwide, although motorcycle sales rose by 5.5 percent to 4.17 million  units. Sales of power products were also higher at 1.71 million units, up 11.7  percent
The improved motorcycle sales mainly reflected "a shift in model mixes  resulting from higher sales volume of relatively smaller models in Asia."
