A Moslem militant leader recently released from  prison has said separatist unrest in Kashmir could end if India opened  unconditional talks with Kashmiris and Pakistan.
Yasin Malik, who spent four years in prison after launching the latest  separatist campaign in 1989, made the offer on Saturday from his hospital bed  in the Kashmiri summer capital of Srinigar, Indian newspapers reported Sunday.
He said his Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) would announce a  unilateral ceasefire if New Delhi agreed to negotiations, the reports said.
Indian leaders have said guerrillas must renounce violence before talks  can start. But Malik said in the Kashmir summer capital of Srinagar, "You  cannot talk of peace and then make any move toward it conditional."
Thirty-year-old Malik returned to Kashmir on May 18 after his release. He  was given a hero's welcome in Srinagar, where he collapsed exhausted while  addressing a massive meeting the same day and immediately hospitalised.
The press conference from his hospital bed was his first appearance since  then.
Malik said the outlawed JKLF, the premier Kashmiri Moslem militant group,  stood for the "total independence" of Kashmir, now divided between India and  Pakistan.
"The Kashmir issue is not merely a territorial dispute between India and  Pakistan," Malik said.
Malik denied the four-year-old Kashmir campaign, which has left nearly  10,000 people dead, was aimed at carving out an exclusive and independent  state for Moslems, The Asian Age and other dailies reported.
"We do not demand freedom for a particular community or a particular area.  We strive for total independence of the 13 million Kashmiris, irrespective of  their caste, creed, colour, race, region or faith.
"The independence of Kashmir means the independence of the 85,000 square  miles (136,000 square kilometers) that constitute our homeland," he said,  referring to the two-thirds of Kashmir with India and the remainder held by  Pakistan.
India and Pakistan dispute sovereignty of Kashmir and have fought two of  their three wars since 1947 over the picturesque province.
Barring the JKLF, all other Moslem separatist groups want the Indian-held  Kashmir to join Pakistan.
Other Moslem groups also want to make Kashmir an Islamic state, and have  forced thousands of Hindus who have lived in the Kashmir valley for  generations to flee. Malik said he wanted the Hindus to return.
Malik, who helped launch the Moslem separatist campaign in Kashmir in  1989, was arrested by Indian security forces on the outskirts of Srinagar in  1990. He was in different prisons until his release on bail on May 16.
