India's ambitious nuclear and missile programmes  will top Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao's agenda on his visit to the United  States, his most controversial foreign trip in three years in office.
The 73-year-old Indian leader, who embarks on the visit Saturday, is under  tremendous domestic pressure to stand up to persistent US demands to cap the  country's nuclear regime and freeze its missile defence programme.
Opposition leaders have urged him to call off the visit to denounce what  they describe as US arm-twisting over the nuclear issue, Kashmir, human rights  and trade.
No overseas visit by Rao has generated so much heat and controversy.
Both Indian officials and US diplomats admit that the two countries have  never been so far apart on crucial policy issues, but emphasise that the trip  is nevertheless important to set the course for future ties.
"There are some issues on which we agree, there are some on which we have  differences," a US diplomat here said, underlining the growing chasm. "We  shall try to find a common agenda."
On Thursday, Rao indicated that a common ground would be hard to find when  he vowed not to roll back India's nuclear and missile policies under pressure  from Washington.
"A leader would be worthless if he changes government policies during his  visits to a foreign country," he told a meeting of MPs from his ruling  Congress (I) party.
Rao is under widespread attack that he has already bowed to Washington by  postponing the final trial of India's surface-to-surface Prithvi missile that  had been scheduled for Saturday.
A day's secret talks between Indian and US officials in London last month  on the nuclear programme added to rumours that Rao may be quietly preparing to  surrender India's nuclear option.
Commentator Nikhil Chakravarty said on Thursday in an article titled "Mr.  Rao, go to Washington but go with dignity" that the week-long visit "looks as  onerous as climbing Mount Everest."
At the root of Indo-US differences is the refusal by New Delhi, which  exploded a nuclear device in 1974, to sign the Nuclear Non-Proliferation  Treaty (NPT) or agree to a pact on a nuclear-free South Asia.
Indian officials with an eye on China say any attempt at nuclear  disarmament should be global and not restricted to a region.
The US administration, which fears that South Asia is a potential nuclear  flashpoint, also wants New Delhi not to induct the Prithvi missile into the  army, and to halt research on the intermediate-range Agni ballistic missile.
The demands, on top of statements by US officials seen here as tacitly  encouraging the Moslem insurgency in Kashmir, have angered many in India,  where the US is still widely seen as pro-Pakistan.
A US proposal to supply 38 F-16 planes to Pakistan, with which India has  fought three wars and which it accuses of backing Moslem separatism in  Kashmir, has added to the list of irritants.
The strains were evident on May 7 when the Indian foreign ministry, in a  move unprecedented ahead of a prime minister's visit, lashed out at Washington.
"India is equally disappointed that the US approach has not accepted  India's position (on nuclear non-proliferation) and persists with its  'all-or-nothing' approach," a spokesman said.
The American attempt to cap the country's nuclear program "is bound to  fail," said Brajesh Mishra of the oppostion Indian's People's Party. "The  prime minister is in no position to compromise in view of the overwhelming  mood in the country."
Amid the fireworks, Indian officials say they will try to sell New Delhi's  three-year-old economic reforms which have made the country an attractive  investment centre, in particular for US companies.
