British Airways (BA) may sue the French government  if it stops the company's flights landing at Orly airport, south of Paris, a  company spokesman said Friday.
The company would consider seeking compensation, the spokesman said.
He did not specify whether the carrier would take immediate action if not  allowed to land Monday when the first British Airways flight to Orly is  scheduled.
British Airways, backed by the British government, is insisting it is  entitled to start flights to Orly Monday in line with a European Commission  ruling last month.
But French authorities have been barring British flights to Orly in  defiance of the decision that ordered France to open three domestic routes --  Orly-London, Orly-Toulouse and Orly-Marseille -- to competition.
The French government has cited congestion at Orly, environmental  considerations and increased access to London's Heathrow airport for French  carriers as issues which need to be resolved before the route is opened.
It is understood that France offered a compromise by suggesting it was  prepared to open Orly to British carriers at the end of June.
British Airways has said: "We have the rights and the slots, and we will  be starting our first London-to-Orly flights on Monday." The British  government has expressed its "full support" for the airline.
Air UK has also stated that it would be "going ahead on Monday."
But French Transport Minister Bernard Bosson said British airlines  planning to defy the ban would do so at their own commercial risk.
"All airlines that would play that game will be responsible for the  inconvenience their passengers may experience," he warned.
In a "very gentle" reminder to Britain, Bosson said, "yes, we are going to  open up Orly. But we, who find ourselves in the dock, would like to see  Britain make the same effort to open up Heathrow," Britain's busiest airport.
In London, a Civil Aviation Authority spokesman noted that the easiest way  in practice for the French to prevent BA and other airlines from serving Orly  was to reject the flight plan, which every pilot has to submit an hour before  takeoff.
Air UK has six flights scheduled from Orly to London's Stansted airport  and the first is due to leave the south Paris airport at 7:15 a.m. (0515 GMT).
BA's first of four Orly return flights is from Heathrow at 6:50 a.m. (0550  GMT).
Meanwhile, a third UK airline -- British Midland -- has delayed the start  of its four-flights-a-day Heathrow-Orly service until the row is resolved.
