Japanese construction machinery giant Komatsu Ltd.  said on Monday that its consolidated pre-tax earnings fell by 55 percent to  13.9 billion yen (135 million dollars) in the year to March from the figure  for the previous year.
The world's second-largest manufacturer of construction equipment said  that sales had fallen by 2.8 percent to 846 billion yen during the period.  They had been depressed by a fall in sales of both construction and industrial  machinery.
Komatsu neverthless forecast a sharp rebound in group earnings to 22  billion yen in the curerent year with sales rising to 910 billion yen.
"The domestic economy is expected to improve, albeit at a mild pace,  centering around the positive effect of the government's economic stimulus  package as well as some improvments in personal consumption," a statement said.
"Demand in the North American market is seen to remain healthy while  markets in other regions are also anticipated to improve, although slowly."
In the latest year, domestic sales had fallen by three percent to 586  billion yen while overseas sales declined by 2.3 percent to 260 billion yen.
Construction equipment sales fell by 2.3 percent to 536 billion yen as  industrial machinery sales plunged 22.3 percent to 50 billion yen. But civil  engineering and construction revenues grew 1.2 percent to 101 billion yen and  electronics sales leapt 6.8 percent to 54 billion yen. Other sales declined  1.3 percent from a year earlier to 104 billion yen.
Komatsu said domestic sales of construction equipment were adversely  affected by the sluggish construction market overall as well as delayed  start-ups for public-works projects.
Demand for construction equipment in North America and Southeast Asia was  "generally healthy" but offset by weak demand in Europe and the Middle East.
Civil engineering and construction revenue was supported by public-sector  projects while sales of electronics sales were buoyed by rising demand for  semiconductors used in personal computers.
Industrial machinery revenue was depressed by sharply lower sales of small  and medium-sized presses and metal-fabricating machines. Other sales were  adversely affected by lower sales of diesel engines and iron and steel casings.
