Deputy President Frederik de Klerk Wednesday  welcomed blacks taking seats in parliament, saying South Africa's  post-apartheid legislature was complete.
Opening debate on President Nelson Mandela's state of the nation address,  De Klerk welcomed the MPs and the "millions of South Africans" who for the  first time in the country's history were represented in parliament.
"I look around me in this house and say this is now really everyone's  parliament," De Klerk said.
He said that what he had envisaged when he made a watershed speech on  February 2, 1990 -- when as president he began the process of dismantling  apartheid -- had finally become a reality.
"I have no regrets," he said, referring to the South Africa's transition  from white minority rule to a democratically elected government of national  unity.
De Klerk pledged that his National Party would support Mandela's  Reconstruction and Development Programme.
Mandela focused on the program in his address to parliament on Tuesday,  setting himself a target of 100 days to address "major areas of desperate  need" with projects "under the direct supervision of the President."
He listed these as free medical care in state hospitals for pregnant women  and children under six; a feeding scheme in primary schools; the  electrification of 350,000 homes during the current fiscal year; a campaign to  rebuild townships, and efforts at job creation and training.
While warning that the blueprint could become prescriptive and invite  government intervention, De Klerk said the National Party "enthusiastically"  supported most of the plan's goals.
"Many of the goals in the programme are also goals which have for years  been pursued by the NP," he said.
"The main problem did not lie in our willingness to meet the needs of the  people, but in the willingness of a large sector of our people to accept  services from a governemnt which they regarded as illegitimate," he said. "The  problem has at last been removed."
Speaking after De Klerk, Zulu leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, who is Home  Affairs Minister, said his Inkatha Freedom Party also supported the  development plan but believed it should also be carried out at the provincial  and local government level.
Clarence Makwetu, leader of the Pan Africanist Congress, which split from  Mandela's African National Congress in 1959, also threw his weight behind  Mandela.
"It is an important milestone in our march to liberation to have an  indigenous African as president after centuries of racist, colonial rule,"  Makwetu said.
