Palestinian self-rule will be over unless the  PLO prevents murderous attacks, Israeli leaders warned Friday after Islamic  gunmen killed two Jewish soldiers in Gaza.
"If the PLO does not bring the situation under control in the Gaza Strip,  does not ensure the safety of Israelis who live there and offers refuge to  terrorists, it will itself have put an end to the agreement," said Education  Minister Amnon Rubinstein.
"It has to be clear that the Gaza Strip and Jericho will not serve as safe  havens for assassins," he told state radio.
The army said three Moslem fundamentalists fled into the autonomous area  of Gaza after the killings near the Erez border crossing. It reacted by  sealing off the Strip.
Eli Dayan, the parliamentary Labour Party leader said: "If the  Palestinians do not take real measures, the autonomy agreement has no future."
And Environment Minister Yossi Sarid added that the Palestine Liberation  Organisation had to be seen to do its best to reduce "terrorism."
"Otherwise it will be a failure and autonomy will not be applied outside  the Gaza Strip, which we want to evacuate anyway, with or without an  agreement."
Palestinian leaders strongly denied allegations broadcast on Israeli state  radio that the Strip was out of control
The radio quoted military sources as saying that so far the Palestinians  were "incapable of controlling the situation."
"Armed activists from HAMAS move around freely on the Gaza Strip without  police intervening," the radio said, referring to the Islamic Resistance  Movement which claimed Friday's killings.
But PLO chief negotiator Nabil Shaath, who arrived overnight for a 24-hour  Gaza visit, told AFP: "We are not losing control. Just wait for us and give us  a chance."
"I regret every drop of blood which is spilled and I condemn this," he  said of the murder of the two sergeants on reserve duty.
Israel's biggest selling daily, Yediot Aharonot, headlined Friday "A real  mess in Gaza." It quoted army chiefs as talking of "total disorder."
However new Palestinian police chief Nasr Yussef refuted the claims,  although his force has shown no sign of disarming civilians or Islamic  fighters.
"The national security force is taking control," he said. "HAMAS does not  control anything. We will do our duty."
The Palestinians would follow their "own procedures" and make arrests as  necessary, he said.
Some 3,000 policeman have entered the Strip and another 670 Jericho in the  last two weeks out of a force which is due to swell to 9,000.
But Freih Abu Middein, a member of the new Palestinian authority, admitted  problems.
"The donor countries have not given us anything," he complained. "We are  still waiting for 120 jeeps to arrive, we are waiting for communications  equipment.
"How can we send out patrols without communications. We can't send our men  out in civilian cars. Until now we have not started working fully. We have to  have the equipment and be strong."
Abu Middein also said money was short."This is why Nabil Shaath is here,  but the money (he brought) is not enough to cover everything for the police."
The amount Shaath brought in was not revealed.
He hit out at the radio claims, saying, "Israel has started these rumours  and that is not right."
Abu Middein warned: "If we don't succeed in Gaza and Jericho it will be  bad for us and for everybody else."
