Ajello
MAPUTO, May 13 (AFP) - The head of the United Nations mission in  Mozambique, Aldo Ajello, said Friday he was dissatisfied with virtually all  aspects of the peace process ahead of October elections after 16 years of  civil war.
"There is no progress with assembly of troops, we've wasted time with  demobilisation and we still have serious problems with forming a new national  army," Ajello said.
He said he was calling a meeting of Mozambique's main peacekeeping  committee next week to discuss these problems and the UN's latest resolution,  which is to reduce its Mozambican peacekeeping mission (ONUMOZ) by 2,000  soldiers immediately and terminate the mandate completely on November 15.
The government called a halt to demobilisation of its forces three weeks  ago, claiming the Mozambique National Resistance (RENAMO) opposition was not  keeping pace with the process.
"Unfortunately, by the time they made that announcement, RENAMO was  already catching up," Ajello said.
He added that the government apparently needed time to correct its lists  of soldiers, as some names were marked down both for demobilisation and for  joining the new national army.
ONUMOZ now has names of 2,459 RENAMO fighters from the 4,000 due to be  demobilised, against 17,593 names from the government.
The government was originally expected to discharge 62,00 soldiers but now  claims it only has some 50,00 soldiers to demobilise.
Ajello dismissed government claims that ONUMOZ "misunderstood" the number  of soldiers it presented, saying: "There was no confusion nor any  misunderstanding on our side.
"Anyone can make a mistake including the government, the only thing to do  is admit and correct it".
He added that he would accept the new government figures, despite RENAMO's  suspicion that the government was hiding troops instead of demobilising them.
Western diplomats in Maputo suggest some government army officials  deliberately inflated the numbers of soldiers in order to draw salaries and  attract donations on behalf of men who were no longer in the army.
