Malaysia's Berjaya Group said Friday it was  buying a 20 percent stake in US-based Satellite Technology Management (STM),  with which it had jointly set up a firm in Hong Kong to develop  telecommunication services for the Asia-Pacific.
The acquisition in STM will be made in three stages through Berjaya's  wholly-owned subsidiary Berjaya Group (Cayman) Ltd, Berjaya said in an  announcement to the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange.
"The investment in STM will thrust the group into the lucrative  international telecommunication industry, recognised as one of the world's  fastest growing industries," said Berjaya company secretary Su Swee Hong.
It will also enable Berjaya, a well-diversified listed conglomerate with  substantial interest in gaming, to diversify its earnings base, Su said.
Berjaya is controlled by politically well-connected Malaysian entrepreneur  Vincent Tan.
STM, involved in the manufacture and marketing of satellite and radio  communication products, is a public limited company incorporated in California  with shares quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automatic  Quotation (Nasdaq).
Berjaya would first subscribe for 11.4 percent of interest in STM at 10  dollars per share for 6.93 million dollars, payable in cash by July 27.
It would buy another 6.6 percent in the firm through a private purchase at  9.10 dollars per share from two STM shareholders for 3.69 million dollars in  cash. A total of 2.804 million dollars had been paid.
The remaining two percent would be acquired from the open market based on  its prevailing market price quoted in Nasdaq. STM shares are being traded at  around seven to eight dollars per share, Berjaya said.
"Except for the open market purchase, the total estimated cost for the  subscription of new shares in STM will be about 10.62 million dollars," Su  said.
Upon acquisition of the 20-percent stake, Berjaya will appoint a  representative on the board of the satellite firm.
Berjaya and STM, in the meantime, have incorporated in Hong Kong a firm  called Earth Telekom (HK) Ltd to develop telecommunication services and  products in the Asia-Pacific region, acknowledged to be the world's fastest  growing economy, Berjaya said.
Earth Telekom has an authorised share capital of 10,000 Hong Kong dollars  and an initial issued and paid-up capital of 20 Hong Kong dollars.
The capital base will eventually be expanded to commensurate with the size  of business undertakings, it said.
STM has established new subsidiaries in Mexico and Brazil as well as a  branch office in Hawaii to serve the Asia-Pacific.
