Japan may set a block on bank transfers and exports  to North Korea if the UN Security Council decides to impose sanctions against  the renegade Stalinist state, press reports said Tuesday.
The 15-member Security Council on Monday issued a new condemnation of  North Korea's nuclear policy, but stopped short of making a threat against  Pyongyang.
The Japanese national security council, chaired by Prime Minister Tsutomu  Hata, discussed the Korean nuclear crisis Tuesday and Pyongyang's refusal to  open its sites to full inspection by the International Atomic Energy Agency  (IAEA).
Jiji press quoted Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa as saying North Korean  scientists had already withdrawn 4,800 fuel rods, out of 8,000 rods at a  five-megawatt reactor at Yongbyon, which the United States suspects is a  nuclear bomb factory.
IAEA monitors have been trying to sample the rods in order to confirm  whether any of the fuel has been diverted to military use.
Kakizawa said the world would be in a "critical phase" in the next two  days, Jiji said.
Meanwhile, the Japan Times reported Tuesday that the finance ministry was  studying ways of blocking yen-denominated bank transfers to North Korea, while  the ministry of international trade and industry was contemplating imposing  authorisation for all exports to that state.
These measures would be implemented if sanctions are decided by the  Security Council, and would go hand-in-glove with a possible ban on charter  flights to North Korea, it said.
There are around 80 charter flights each year between Japan and North  Korea, carrying Koreans with business or residence in Japan. The two countries  are also connected by a ferry service between Niigata in Japan and Wonsan in  North Korea, which is viewed as a vital source of hard currency and technology  supplies for the isolated North Koreans.
Japanese banks have already voluntarily stopped dollar-denominated  transfers to North Korea, the finance ministry said.
Japan and China are North Korea's biggest trade partners and sources of  hard currency.
