The Tonton Macoutes, the dreaded militia  that terrorized Haitians under two dictators, re-emerged Friday and pledged to  lead the resistance if the United States invaded the impoverished Caribbean  country.
The Macoutes, whose name became synonymous with savagery under the regimes  of Francois "Papa Doc" Duvalier and his son, Jean-Claude "Baby Doc" Duvalier,  pleged to re-organize to protect against any invasion.
"We have machetes, knives, stones and voodoo," said Gerard Bertha  Dessaint, one of the Macoutes who spoke at a news conference announcing the  reorganization of the group.
"Whatever day or time of the invasion, we will be there," she said. "We  will not die of AIDS, we will not die ill, we will die standing up."
The militia formally known as the National Security Volunteer Corps  included as many as 300,000 members before the group was dissolved in February  1986 by the military government after Baby Doc Duvalier was ousted.
Dessaint said 30,000 former members were prepared to join the call to arms  and would begin wearing their blue denim uniforms with red scarves in coming  days. The Macoutes would fight alongside the army in case of a US invasion,  she said.
President Bill Clinton has refused to rule out military action to restore  Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the democratically elected president ousted in a  September 1991 coup, if economic sanctions fail to work.
In Washington some Republican lawmakers expressed fear that a US invasion  of Haiti could take place during the upcoming the Memorial Day recess.
"I really hope the president does not plan to invade Haiti during the  recess," Representative Newt Gingrich said before Congress adjourned Thursday  until June 7.
The House of Representatives this week approved a nonbinding amendment  recommending that a small Haitian island be used as a refugee processing  center and a base for a government in exile headed by Aristide.
William Gray, Clinton's special envoy on Haiti, said meanwhile the United  States could move unilaterally to impose additional sanctions on Haiti to  force its miltary leaders to give up power.
Gray said new sanctions could include restrictions on the transfer of  funds or on commercial flights. Another option was to enlarge the list of  people tied to the Haitian junta who would be ineligible for visas.
A United Nationas embargo against Haiti covering all but food and medicine  took effect last weekend in a bid to force the military to relinquish power.
