Five years after the tanks rolled into Tiananmen  Square, China's dissident movement has once again been reduced to a neutered,  disparate front -- its leaders muzzled, imprisoned or exiled to the provinces  and abroad.
A phoenix-like resurgence at the end of last year, when petitions and open  letters challenging the government began to flow thick and fast, has been all  but stamped out by a regime just as bent on self-preservation as that which  sent in the troops and tanks on June 4, 1989.
While the latest crackdown, instigated in March, showed that political  dissidents are still perceived as a very real threat by the government, the  confidence and ease with which it was carried out bore stark witness to the  changes that have occurred in China over the past five years.
The spontaneity and idealistic enthusiasm that brought millions onto the  streets in the heady summer of 1989 have been superseded by the practical  realities of China's extraordinary economic growth which has provided many  Chinese, especially the young, with a new set of priorities.
Although the deep scars inflicted by the Tiananmen Square massacre remain,  the vast majority of students who sparked the mass demonstrations of five  years ago are more concerned with making money than fighting for democratic  pluralism.
"A lot of people who were all het up in 1989 are less likely to be so  now," said one western diplomat here. "Now they're more isolated and atomised  out there in society trying to make a living."
With the demise of student radicalism, the main voices of dissent in China  are a handful of leaders from the 1989 movement and the veteran intellectuals  and pro-democracy activists who came to prominence during the 1978-79  Democracy Wall movement -- including the country's most celebrated and  influential dissident, Wei Jingsheng.
Emerging late last year from four years in the wilderness, the veterans  signalled a significant change in dissident tactics, replacing abstract calls  for democracy with a more focused campaign that addressed the destabilising  problems thrown up China's economic reform programme.
Highlighting the growing discontent felt by workers and peasants over  corruption, rampant inflation and growing income disparities, dissident-formed  groups addressed petitions and open letters to the government, calling for the  restoration of the right to strike and the legalisation of independent  workers' and peasant labour unions.
"We have moved from a clandestine to a more public approach in the search  for a legal foundation to operate from," explained the prominent Shanghai  dissident Yang Zhou.
Their activities stoked the greatest fear within a Chinese leadership all  too aware of the untapped potential for serious grassroots unrest among those  who feel disenfranchised by the reform programme.
"These dissidents are the biggest threat, precisely because of their  potential to galvanise the distrust and anxiety that's already there," the  western diplomat said.
"As far as the government is concerned, attempts to organise independent  trade unions are more dangerous than anything else."
According to the Chinese Labour Ministry, there were more than 6,000  workers' protests last year, despite the fact that such open demonstrations  are illegal.
However, the decision of the dissident community to confront this central  policy dilemma head on took a heavy toll, as the authorities moved swiftly to  crush nascent labour organisations and arrested the activists behind them.
Wei Jingsheng, released in September after serving all but six months of a  15-year sentence, was arrested in April and now faces fresh charges.
The crackdown was effective in removing or silencing many of the key  players and, according to another western diplomat, the future for the  dissident movement looks bleak without them.
"The problem is that there are very few with the charisma and potential to  be labour leaders. Wei Jingsheng is one who has those qualities and that's why  they dealt so harshly with him," the diplomat said.
