Here are extracts of the final statement on the  peace process in Bosnia-Hercegovina, agreed in Geneva on Friday by the foreign  ministers of Russia, the United States, and five European Union countries.
"The ministers underscore their resolve and unity of purpose in working  for an early and durable settlement of the Bosnian conflict. They reaffirm  that the conflict in Bosnia and Hercegovina cannot be resolved by military  means and must be settled through negotiations."
"Only a peaceful settlement will command the support of the international  community and offer the peoples of Bosnia and Hercegovina the prospect of a  secure future."
"They confirm their support for a settlement that preserves Bosnia and  Hercegovina as a single Union within its internationally recognised borders,  while providing for constitutional arrangements that establish the  relationship between the Bosnian-Croat and Bosnian Serb entities."
"The ministers express their strong concern that in the wake of the recent  Bosnian Serb attack on the UN-declared safe area of Gorazde, the negotiating  process has been set back. They warn all the parties concerning the  unacceptability and risks of pursuing military solutions."
"In this regard, they support the determination of the international  community to take necessary action to protect the safe areas within Bosnia and  Hercegovina, established in accordance with (UN) Security Council resolutions  824 and 836 (and) express their full support for strict enforcement of these  resolutions, decisions and agreements."
"The ministers demand that all parties permit the unimpeded delivery of  humanitarian assistance in accordance with existing agreements (and) insist on  the release of those members of humanitarian organisations in detention."
They "endorse efforts currently being made by (the UN Protection Force)  UNPROFOR and under way in the Security Council to prevent offensive action in  safe areas, particularly in and around Brcko."
The ministers "call on the parties to conclude a comprehensive cessation  of hostilities and to resume in parallel, without preconditions, serious  efforts to reach a political settlement."
"The agreement on cessation of hostilities must include the separation of  forces, the withdrawal of heavy weapons and the interposition of UNPROFOR  troops. On the basis of previous discussions with the parties, the ministers  believe the agreement should be for a period of four months, with provision  for extension."
"To complete its task (...) UNPROFOR will need further reinforcement."
"Previous negotiations have established the concept of a territorial  compromise based on 51 percent for the Bosnian-Croat entity and 49 percent for  the Bosnian Serb entity. Ministers urge the parties to reach an agreement on  this basis."
"Final arrangements for the Bosnian-Croat federation "must provide it with  viable, realistic and reasonable territory consistent with the concept  described above."
"Any attempt to make sanctions relief a precondition for resuming talks is  unacceptable. Good-faith implementation of a peace settlement that includes  provisions for withdrawal to agreed territorial limits will lead to phased  suspension of the sanctions imposed by the United Nations."
"With a view to achieving an early settlement within this framework, the  ministers invite the parties to begin substantive negotiations under the aegis  of the Contact Group within the next two weeks."
"The Contact Group was instructed to immediately commence all the  necessary substantive preparations."
