Australian government forecasts for rapid economic  growth were thown into doubt Wednesday as official data unexpectedly showed a  slump in business investment, analysts said.
Handing down his budget for the year to June 30, 1995, Australian  Treasurer Ralph Willis said on May 10 that a surge in business investment --  forecast at 14.6 percent for 1994-95 -- was "crucial" to his forecasts of  economic growth.
But the Australian Bureau of Statistics reported Wednesday that private  capital expenditure fell 5.4 percent in the three months to March 31 to a  seasonally adjusted 5.884 billion Australian dollars (4.2 billion US).
The median market forecast had been for a rise of 5.0 percent.
"The government's whole economic strategy is based on very, very poor  foundations altogether," said Societe Generale Australia's chief economist,  Ivana Bottini.
"They recognised that the big weakness was business investment and they  did absolutely nothing to promote business investment in the budget -- they  assumed it would just magically improve," she said.
In raw terms, the bureau predicted a six percent rise in private sector  capital spending in 1994-95 from the 1993-94 estimate of 27.452 billion  dollars.
That rise depended on actual capital spending exceeding latest private  sector expectations by about 10 percent. This had occurred during 1992-93 and  was likely to happen in 1993-94, the bureau said.
"On the face of it, even the expectations data for 1994-95 appear likely  to fall short of the rosy outlook in the budget forecasts for a 14.5 percent  increase in investment," said Stephen Koukoulas, senior economist at Citibank  Australia.
"These figures suggest that the budget forecasts for business investment  are very optimistic."
Willis insisted his forecasts remained intact because actual business  investment in the next financial year would outstrip private sector  expectations by more than the bureau's forecasts.
"With economic conditions continuing to improve and with general business  confidence remaining extremely high," he said, the difference between actual  investment and business expectations "can be expected to increase."
Bottini, however, said Australia would be doing well to achieve a six  percent rise in business investment 1994-95.
"Today's data underlines a major structural weakness in the Australian  economy," she said. Domestic demand rather than productive capacity continued  to fuel the country's economy recovery.
"The upshot is that capacity constraints are likely to emerge as the  domestic recovery continues, with negative implications for both the current  account deficit and inflation."
The government's reliance on higher revenue from accelerating growth --  projected at 4.5 percent for 1994-95 -- meant that "should activity prove to  be disappointing in any sector of the economy the deficit will be necessarily  higher than expected," Bottini added.
Willis had forecast a budget deficit of 11.7 billion dollars for 1994-95  from the previous year's estimated 13.6 billion dollars.
"There is no question about it, the fall in plant and equipment investment  in the March quarter is unexpected, puzzling and disappointing," said Chris  Caton, chief economist at Bankers Trust Australia.
"Today's data will be interpreted by many as casting serious doubt on the  government's budget-time forecast of a 14.6 percent recovery in business  investment in 1994-95."
However, Caton said he continued to believe a recovery in business  investment was "in the offing," citing strong company profits, high levels of  business confidence and increasing use of present manufacturing capacity.
