Renewed threats of strikes by civil servants  in former black homelands pose a potential crisis for President Nelson  Mandela's six-day-old government.
Some 30,000 civil servants of the former Lebowa, Gazankulu and Venda black  homelands threatened to resume strikes Tuesday unless their demands for  increased salaries are met, according to the Sowetan newspaper Monday.
Striking civil servants and policemen played a big part in toppling  Bophuthatswana and Ciskei black homeland before the April 26-29 election in  which Mandela's African National Congress (ANC) swept to victory, ending more  than 300 years of white minority rule.
Under the constitution which came into effect after the election, the 10  black homelands invented by the apartheid government to keep blacks out of  "white" South Africa were assimilated into the country and now form part of  nine new regions.
The civil servants were absorbed into the nine provincial administrations.
Newly installed Northern Transvaal premier Ngoako Ramathlodi appealed to  the 30,000 civil servants, who suspended their strike shortly before the  election, not to resume the industrial action and to give his fledgling  administration time to deal with their grievances, the Sowetan said.
"We urge all public servants in all three former homelands of Gazankulu,  Lebowa and Venda to go to work and rededicate themselves to working for their  democratic provincial government," he said.
"We indicated before and we wish to repeat that we are committed to  addressing all legitimate conserns of the civil servants," the newspaper  quoted him as saying.
In the former Bophuthatswana, about 500 striking civil servants agreed to  go back to work after a similar appeal by North West premier Popo Molefe.
In a statement, Molefe said he considered as legitimate their demands for  pay increases to bring them into line with civil servants who worked for the  former South African administration, but urged them to approach the issue in a  "democratic way."
The ex-Pretoria government removed Bophuthatswana president Lucas Mangope   from office in March and replaced him with two administrators after the civil  service strike, riots and looting weakened his authority.
Tjaard van der Walt, one of the homeland administrators who is now acting  as an advisor to Molefe's government, said the civil servants had voted  "unanimously to suspend their strike, support the government and give it time  to work on the issue."
Van der Walt said the strike had been continuing "on and off" since  Mangope's downfall.
The domestic news agency SAPA reported that it would cost the new South  African government 297 millinon rands (82.5 million dollars) to put salaries  of Bophuthatswana's 2,000 civil servants on a par with those of the former  South African administration.
Ciskei homeland leader Oupa Qozo stepped down from office on March 22  after a strike by policemen demanding payment their pensions threatened his  rule.
