Italian director Nanni Moretti, competing  here for the Golden Palm film award, attacked new premier Silvio Berlusconi  Thursday, voicing concern at his domination of Italy's media industry.
Moretti, on the Croisette for the screening of "Caro Diario" (Dear Diary),  a quirky comedy starring himself, said Berlusconi would inevitably suffer a  conflict of interests.
"I think it is very serious that the prime minister in Italy has  accumulated for himself an empire in the information industry, an empire  unique in a democracy," he told a press conference.
"I think that no matter how hard he tries it will be totally impossible  for him to avoid a relationship between his public interests and his private  interests.
"I am not militant about anything," he said. But he added that the  political evolution in Italy "began with the fall of Craxi .... now we are  seeing something which looks very much like the rehabilitation of Craxi."
Discredited Christian Democrat premier Bettino Craxi was forced to resign  in February 1993 amid the country's politico-industrial corruption scandal.  The recent elections are slated to open a new era in Italian politics.
Moretti was speaking ahead of the premier of Dear Diary Thursday evening,  on the seventh full day of the 47th Cannes International Film Festival, which  ends next Monday.
His film, widely applauded at its preview screening, is divided into three  sections.
As in his previous works, Moretti takes the central role, first on a vespa  around Rome, then in an island tour, and finally through his experiences at  the hands of doctors treating him for a tumour.
The film is one of three Italian entries in the main competition here: the  other two are Giuseppe Tornatore's "A Simple Formality," and Mario Brenta's  "Barnabo of the Mountains," both already screened.
Moretti told the press conference that if he had more time he would talk  more about the new Italian government. "The right won the election, but in my  view Berlusconi is something serious," he said.
