Dan Rostenkowski, a Democratic power broker and  point man for President Bill Clinton's health care reform, was indicted  Tuesday on 17 counts of corruption.
A federal grand jury handed down the indictment against the chairman of  the powerful House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee after  Rostenkowski spurned a plea bargain.
"Congressman Rostenkowski engaged in a pattern of corrupt activity for  more than 20 years and embezzled hundreds of thousands of dollars," said US  Attorney Eric Holder, who said the Chicago lawmaker sought to enrich himself,  his family and his friends.
The charges in the 49-page indictment included mail fraud, wire fraud,  embezzlement and conspiracy.
Rostenkowski faces several years in prison if convicted on all charges,  Holder said.
Vowing to fight to regain his reputation in court, Rostenkowski rejected  Monday a plea bargain that would have meant pleading guilty to a felony,  resigning from Congress and serving a short prison sentence.
The showdown set the stage for a nasty legal battle as Clinton struggles  to win passage in the House of Representatives of his health care reform  program, the centerpiece of his administration.
"Like all Americans, Chairman Rostenkowski has the right to contest the  charges made against him and to have his day in court," the president said in  a statement.
"Chairman Rostenkowski and others have helped create real momentum for  health care reform, and I'm confident that legislation will pass this year,"  added Clinton.
But with the administration's success or failure riding largely on reform  of the health care system, the loss of its most influential champion in  Congress was a major blow for the president.
Rostenkowski said he was temporarily leaving his chairmanship of the House  Ways and Means Committee, but would remain in Congress and run for a 19th term  in November.
Democratic leaders said they expected him to continue playing a  behind-the-scenes role on health care and the White House indicated they would  continue to rely on him despite his legal problems.
"We'll continue to work with all members of Congress to get health care  reform passed this year," said White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers. "And as  a member of Congress, Congressman Rostenkowski is included in that."
"The allegations contained in today's indictment represent a betrayal of  the public trust for personal gain," Holder said. "The essence of this  indictment alleges that Congressman Rostenkowski used his elective office to  perpetrate an extensive fraud on the American people."
"The wrongful expenditure of taxpayer dollars by Congressman Rostenkowski  rose into the hundreds of thousands of dollars. This is not, as some have  suggested, a petty matter," said Holder.
Holder said more than 500,000 dollars were paid out to least 14 people on  Rostenkowski's congressional payroll who did little or no congressional work.
A photographer, a bookkeeper for the family insurance business, a person  who remodeled Rostekowski's Chicago home, a groundskeeper at his summer home,  and the congressman's son-in-law were among those on the payroll cited by  Holder.
The indictment alleged that Rostenkowski bought more than 40,000 dollars  in handmade chairs, crystal sculptures and fine china at the House of  Representatives stationary store and charged them to his official expense  account.
He also passed on to Congress bills totalling more than 70,000 dollars for  the purchase between 1986 and 1992 of seven personal vehicles used by himself  and his family, Holder said.
An additional 28,000 dollars used for the vehicle purchases were charged  to his campaign fund, the prosecutor alleged.
The indictment also alleges that Rostenkowski sought to obstruct justice  by instructing an engraver not to tell the grand jury about the crystal  sculptures he had acquired from the House stationary store.
Holder had given Rostenkowski until Tuesday to accept a plea bargain.
"I am confident that I will be vindicated and I look forward to the return  of the gavel," said Rostenkowski, referring to his committee chairmanship.
The House Ways and Means Committee controls the purse strings of  government,  giving its members unparalleled political clout.
Sam Gibbons, a low-key Florida Democrat whose expertise is in  international trade rather than health care, was positioned to replace  Rostenkowski as chairman of the committee.
"I think the charman is going to maintain a behind-the-scenes control of  this thing," said Representative Rick Santorum, a Republican from  Pennsylvania, in an ABC television interview.
