Venezuelan President Rafael Caldera has completed  his first 100 days in office with protests shaking the capital and a somber  economic outlook fed by a 25 percent plunge in the currency in over a week.
Caldera took office on February 2, just days before the country was hit by  a banking and financial crisis that started in Banco Latino, the  second-largest bank in the country, and up to now has cost the government 5.3  billion dollars to keep in check.
"The government's hands are tied by an inherited economic crisis it has  only managed to tackle with band-aids, while the macro-economic problem goes  unaddressed," a businessman told AFP.
While Venezuelans were eagerly awaiting his new economic plan, Caldera  issued a decree suspending economic safeguards and -- against the advice of  experts -- caved in to protests and lifted a highly unpopular consumer tax  that had gone into effect on January 1.
In its place, Caldera instituted a tax reform that included higher taxes  on wholesale and luxury items and bank borrowing. To do this he managed to get  a law through Congress giving him a free hand in economic matters until next  week.
But despite Caldera's relative success in the political arena and in  maintaining a positive public image, analysts predict the economic reality and  its social repercussions will soon catch up with him.
A government budget deficit that equals 10 percent of gross domestic  product (GDP) and a sustained drop in oil prices have forced the government to  consider subsidizing the oil industry which runs up more than 300 million  dollars in losses a year.
But raising gasoline prices conjures up the horrors of February 1989, when  higher fuel prices led to higher public transport fares igniting riots that  killed 250 people -- more than 1,000 according to human rights groups -- and  caused millions of dollars in damage.
This week, even without a rise in gasoline prices, students rioted because  of a government failure to live up to plans to offer students discounted bus  fares and hundreds of government workers marched to demand pay rises promised  by Caldera's predecessor.
Some 15,000 court employees went on strike to protest the government's  failure to deliver promised pay raises and agricultural workers have  threatened to stop work and block provincial highways next week if their debts  with private banks cannot be refinanced.
Caldera, who was president from 1968 to 1972, also had another success:  even before he was inaugurated, Caldera successfully asked for the  resignations of the top military command because of their opposition to  pardoning officers who participated in attempted coups in February and  November 1992.
In three months, he stopped the cases against nearly all the officers  imprisoned for the uprisings, including the the leader of the first attempted  coup, commander Hugo Chavez, most of whom have been released.
Despite this success and the perception that Caldera's new government is  free of corruption, voters are still uncertain about their future.
"Honesty doesn't put food on the table," a passerby told AFP.
