British Prime Minister John Major Monday put  preservation of Britain's national veto at the heart of the ruling  Conservative party's aggressive campaign for the June 9 European elections.
He accused opposition Labour and Liberal Democrat parties of promoting a  weak Britain in a "European superstate" -- as he addressed the first rally of  the campaign in Bristol, southern England.
And he warned that opposition policies like a four-day week would sink  Europe by making it incapable of competing with Asia.
Pledging to maintain the British veto in the Council of Ministers in  Brussels on issues such as taxation, foreign policy and immigration, Major  described it as "our insurance policy, our safeguard for our vital interests".
And he added: "In doing so we are not just being anti-European, not being  the awkward squad. We are just doing our job."
Major claimed the Conservatives' opponents may wish to create "a weak  Britain swamped in the European superstate".
But said: "Our interests today -- our lasting interests -- are to see a  strong Britain in a strong Europe... And when we oppose -- as we sometimes  will -- the fashionable concerns of our European partners, we are not being  anti-European then either. It is our job to decide what is right for Britain  and right for Europe -- and then fight for it."
He warned, too, that his political opponents wanted to adopt the 35-hour  or four-day week.
"We will not beat the Far East where the factories are humming six days a  week -- and frequently seven -- by packing up our bags for a three-day weekend.
"A four-day week would sink Europe. And let no-one who considers sending  socialists to the Parliament at Strasbourg to argue for a four-day week ever  say they have not been warned."
Earlier Monday, the three parties had launched their campaigns -- delayed  for a week because of the death of Labour leader John Smith -- and unveiled  their manifestos for what threatens to be the most bitter Euro-election battle  ever seen in Britain.
Major's Conservatives are striving to limit the campaign to European issues  but the Labour and Liberal Democrat parties, following resounding victories in  local council elections earlier this month, see the Euro-elections as a forum  to take another whack at the premier's faltering leadership.
