Russian writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn will end 20  years in exile and return home on May 27, his wife said Friday.
Solzhenitsyn, who has been living in the small town of Cavendish, Vermont  in the northeast of the United States, will fly to Vladivostok in the Russian  Far East via Anchorage, Alaska and then on across the country, Natalia  Solzhenitsyn said in a communique.
She said in the statement which was issued from Cavendish and received  here that Solzhenitsyn would embark on a "trip across Russia in order to  acquaint himself with the current condition of our homeland."
"We leave Vermont with a warm feeling of gratitude," she said, adding, "We  go to Russia with great concern for her present state, but with hope for her  future recovery."
"The first stop on our journey will be Magadan" in the extreme far east,  said the wife of the winner of the 1970 Nobel Prize in Literature.
Magadan was a prisoner center in a former labor camp in the Gulag, the  Russian acronym for Glavnoye Upravlenie Lagerei. From there, prisoners  sentenced to forced labor were sent north to Kolyma, an area rich in gold.
Considered the greatest living Russian writer, Solzhenitsyn was expelled  from the Soviet Union because of his works on February 13, 1974, handcuffed  and surrounded by KGB agents.
Solzhenitsyn, who spent eight years in labor camps and was exiled in  Kazakhstan, recounted life in the Gulag in his most famous work, "The Gulag  Archipelago." Published abroad in 1973, it was not allowed to be published in  the Soviet Union until 1989.
His other best-known works are "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich"  about life in a Soviet labor camp, "The First Circle" and "Cancer Ward."
Solzhenitsyn himself was stricken by cancer when he was held prisoner in  Kazakhstan, but he later made a full recovery.
It was expected it would take several weeks for him to complete his  journey back to Moscow where an apartment has been made available for him  during the construction of a datcha or country house outside the Russian  capital.
His wife has often said that it will be difficult for the writer to  readapt to city life after living in the forests of Vermont which he chose  because it reminded him of his homeland.
