About 30 armed Jewish settlers prayed  at the ancient Jewish synagogue in Jericho on Sunday under the protection of  the new Palestinian police and Israeli army, a correspondent reported.
The group led by far-right Israeli MP Hanan Porat was escorted by Israeli  soldiers into the building on the edge of the town
Porat of the National Religious Party said another group of settlers would  arrive at the synagogue later in the day.
Tensions ran high but there had been no trouble by midday.
"We do not want any provocation or clashes with the Palestinian police,"  Porat said.
"But we consider it shameful that Israel has signed an agreement which  puts Palestinians in charge of a Jewish holy place. It's a dangerous  precedent," Porat told state radio.
Porat crossed into the newly-autonomous enclave from the north through the  Jewish settlement of Naama.
"No one can dictate to us the internal rules in a synagogue," Porat said.  "We will pray and study the Torah (Jewish law) on site all day," he added.
A joint Palestinian-Israeli patrol stopped extremists from the banned  racist Kach movement from praying in the synagogue overnight Friday, Israeli  military sources said.
The Kach members tried to slip into the Shalom al Israel (Peace upon  Israel) synagogue under cover of darkness.
But the patrol, which included Palestinian police who only took up their  new duties on Friday, rumbled the ploy.
Kach was banned by Israel after the February 25 Hebron mosque massacre in  which a Jewish settler killed 30 Arab worshippers.
It was the second time that Israelis had tried to get into the synagogue  since the army withdrew from the West Bank town of Jericho on Friday  transferring powers to the Palestinians.
Jewish settlers from Ofra, north of the town, have also tried to enter and  troops removed squatters from the synagogue, including Porat, ahead of  Friday's takeover by the Palestinians.
Under the Israel-PLO self-rule deal signed on May 4 in Cairo, the house of  prayer, which boasts 5th-6th century mosaics, is to be administered by the  Palestinians in coordination with the Israeli ministry for religious affairs.
