The North Korean nuclear crisis deepened  Friday as talks on monitoring the removal of fuel rods at a nuclear site  apparently ended in failure, US officials and diplomatic sources said.
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and North Korea were trying  to agree conditions for checking the removal of fuel rods from a reactor at  Yongbyon.
But the talks in Pyongyang apparently ended in failure, diplomatic sources  here said.
In Washington a senior US official said "we understand there has been no  agreement between North Korea and the IAEA on that question."
He said the IAEA official involved was expected to leave for Vienna  shortly and that no further talks were planned.
North Korea is continuing to remove the used rods, diplomatic sources here  and US officials said.
IAEA director general Hans Blix is likely to provide a report on the  problem to the UN Security Council later Friday or early Saturday at the  latest, they added.
According to reports circulating here North Korea has speeded up the  discharge of the spent fuel rods and the operation could be completed by  Tuesday.
But the US official said Washington was still prepared to hold a third  round of high-level talks with North Korea to discuss a number of economic,  political and security issues and try to bring Pyongyang into the  international community.
"As long as it is still possible for the IAEA to do what it needs to do"  to confirm that no plutonium has been diverted for weapons use, Washington  remains willing to hold talks, the official said.
But he reiterated Washington's stand that once that point was past, it  would seek Security Council action to force North Korea to comply and said "it  is still a point of concern ... that North Korea continues to defuel the  reactor."
The IAEA says it must be able to set its own conditions to monitor the  discharge of the rods from the five-megawatt reactor at Yongbyon in order to  ascertain whether any plutonium has been diverted.
North Korea has blocked full international inspections of its nuclear  facilities for more than a year, sparking fears that it is developing nuclear  weapons.
The Security Council may discuss the issue late Friday or early Saturday,  diplomats said.
The five permanent Council members (Britain, France, the United States,  China and Russia) have already held intensive talks after an informal session  between US and North Korean representatives in New York on Thursday.
The Security Council could discuss a statement, or even a resolution,  demanding that Pyongyang stop discharging the reactor or face Security Council  action, presumably sanctions.
North Korea has said it will regard sanctions as an act of war.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Friday that the United States  is not seeking confrontation with North Korea but will defend South Korea  against any aggression from Pyongyang.
"Confrontation is emphatically not our preferred path," Christopher said  in a speech to the Asia Society in New York.
"US forces stand shoulder to shoulder with those of our ally, South Korea,  to deter and defeat any agression by the North."
Christopher said that if North Korea persisted in its nuclear ambitions  the price would be continued isolation, economic hardship and pariah status.
But if North Korea abandons plans to acquire nuclear weapons "and does  not otherwise undermine peace in Northeast Asia," it could become part of the  international community," he added.
