Alexander Solzhenitsyn was to finally  return to his beloved Russia on Wednesday, having outlasted the Soviet system  that imprisoned him, then expelled him for his writings 20 years ago.
The author of the epic "Gulag Archipelago" was to leave Cavenedish,  Vermont at midday, saying farewell to this tiny town which he picked for its  birch woods and long, snowy winters that reminded him of Russia and made exile  more bearable.
Above all, the 75-year-old Nobel literature prize winner and sworn enemy  of communism is going to his homeland to die a free man.
He hopes to devote the last years of his tumultous life to helping Russia  escape what he says is rampant economic chaos, corruption and mafia crime.
His odyssey will be as much a voyage of rediscovery as a return home.
His first stop will be in the far eastern Russian port of Vladivostok. En  route to Moscow, he will pass through Siberia, the Ural Mountains and the  heart of Russia, possibly including the sites of former camps where  Solzhenitsyn and millions of other Russians were imprisoned.
He is due arrive with his wife Natalia, two of their sons and his  mother-in-law in Vladivostok on Friday, flying first class on Alaska Airlines  flight 201 from the US west coast.
Throughout his time in the United States, Cavendish was a haven for the  dissident and a place where he could concentrate on his latest work -- the  monumental, 10-volume history of the Russian revolution, "The Red Wheel."
When he arrived in Vermont in 1976, after spending his first two years of  exile in Switzerland, Solzhenitsyn announced that the day he was able to  return home "I will thank you very much for having been good and friendly  neighbors and I will go back home."
In fact, during his almost two-decades stay in the United States  Solzhenitsyn made every effort to shut out the new country and remind himself  of his homeland.
He reads English, but barely speaks it, and has said he spends his time  "constantly immersed in the Russian language."
Although the Soviet regime collapsed in December 1991, it took two and a  half years for all the conditions to be met before Solzhenitsyn would return.  He particularly wanted to be declared innocent by the Russian justice system.
On February 28, the writer informed Cavendish's 1,300 residents that he  was going home. They barely ever saw their reclusive, Russian neighbor but  took pains to respect his privacy and prevent his closed-off property from  becoming a tourist attraction.
Although happy to be leaving the United States, he is fond of Cavendish and  the effort its residents made to be good neighbors.
He has said that his time in Vermont was the richest in his life as a  writer.
Those tranquil years also meant the Solzhenitsyns could raise three sons  as US citizens. A fourth son, from Natalia's previous marriage, died this year  from a heart attack.
One thing is not sure: whether or not Solzhenitsyn will recognize the  country he so wants to see again, but which is changing by the day.
The Solzhenitsyns have already had their first taste of post-communist  Russia. Building of their new country house outside Moscow has been delayed  because of defective workmanship and they must temporarily live in an  apartment in the capital, said one of their sons, Ignat.
