Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds flew to London  Wednesday for talks with his British counterpart John Major on setting up new  multi-party talks on Northern Ireland, a government spokesman said here.
The informal meeting Thursday will allow the two leaders to assess the  progress in their respective governments' efforts to produce a document  setting out the main lines for possible multi-party talks on Northern Ireland,  the spokesman said.
The multi-party talks, aimed at finding a formula for local rule in the  province, would bring in London, Dublin, the Northern Ireland parties and Sinn  Fein, provided that the political wing of the IRA renounces violence.
The next Anglo-Irish summit, at the end of June or early July, could see  the presentation of the talks document, Irish officials suggested.
According to the terms of the Anglo-Irish accord of 1985, meetings between  the British and Irish prime ministers are held every six months and meetings  at ministerial level take place every two months.
In recent months, however, the meetings have multiplied as have contacts  between senior British and Irish civil servants.
The two governments are meanwhile awaiting the Sinn Fein reaction to the  clarifications published by London last week of last December's Anglo-Irish  declaration.
Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein leader called the British move an "important  step" in the slowly evolving peace process in Northern Ireland.
London and Dublin, who claim to hold a common objective for the province,  want to set up a viable platform for a resumption in the multiparty talks.
The last set of talks ended without an accord in 1992. Sinn Fein did not  participate.
In London, Reynolds was to attend a reception for the Irish football team  before its departure for the United States where it is to take part in the  football World Cup.
On Friday, Reynolds will take part in a public debate on Northern Ireland  organised by an Oxford University club. He is to return to Dublin Saturday.
