Georgia does not possess the means to push for a  military solution in its breakaway province of Abkhazia and should accept a  Moscow-mediated peace accord signed Saturday, President Eduard Shevardnadze  said Sunday.
In a television address reported by Interfax, Shevardnadze said rejecting  the accord would mean pushing for a military solution. This was "justifiable  neither morally nor with regard to our capabilities."
He rejected opposition accusations that the peace agreement would entail  burying the country's territorial integrity if it allowed the secession of  Abkhazia, in northwestern Georgia. Separatist troops ousted Georgian soldiers  last September after a year of conflict which claimed several thousand lives.
"There is not one word on Abkhazian sovereignty or the creation of an  Abkhazian state in this text," said Shevardnadze, referring to Saturday's  accord. The agreement calls for a ceasefire and the deployment of Commonwealth  of Independent States troops within a 12-kilometre (seven-mile) buffer zone  separating Abkhazia from the rest of Georgia along the river Ingouri.
The president condemned the Georgian parliament for refusing Friday to  ratify the draft of the agreement. But Interfax said the assembly's decision  would not be legal as only the president, as head of state, had the power to  negotiate treaties.
Shevardnadze had earlier threatened to resign over the parliamentary  decision but Interfax said the deputies had adjourned a discussion on the  abolition of the presidency, also offered by Shevardnadze, after failing to  muster a quorum Saturday.
He was elected as parliamentary president by universal suffrage in the  autumn of 1992 and was later chosen as head of state by the assembly.
Saturday's accord followed an earlier agreement signed April 4 in Moscow  and which additionally foresaw the return of 200,000 Georgian refugees from  the conflict zone.
Abkhazian sources said the earlier agreement had not stopped several  clashes over recent weeks between the two sides, and the return of refugees  had yet to start.
