The Crimean parliament voted Friday to  give the autonomous republic effective independence from Ukraine.
The legislature voted to re-establish a 1992 constitution which provided  for treaty relations between Crimea and Ukraine.
Crimea is now an autonomous republic within Ukraine.
Kiev views restoring the 1992 constitution as tantamount to a declaration  of independence.
The constitution was never applied since the Crimean parliament amended it  under pressure from Ukrainian authorities.
Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk said Thursday that Kiev had "enough  force" to force Crimea to respect the Ukrainian constitution.
Ukraine ordered the takeover of police forces in the Crimean peninsula  Thursday in what local officials charged was a military coup against the  leadership of the Russian-speaking region.
Valery Kuznetsov, Crimea's acting interior minster, told a session of the  local parliament Thursday that Ukrainian Deputy Interior Minister Valentin  Nedrigailo had presented him with a decree signed by President Leonid Kravchuk  and ordering the takeover.
"A military coup d'etat is underway", Kuznetsov said after the Kiev  official arrived with a group of 15 elite troops from the Ukrainian interior  ministry.
But Ukrainian security services said about 15 troops arrived overnight at  the military airport in Belbek, near Sevastopol, and that they were simply  accompanying Nedrigailo on his trip.
Russia's Interfax news agency quoted the Ukrainian interior ministry as  confirming that Kravchuk had issued a decree placing Crimean police forces  under Kiev's control.
The decree reportedly appointed new officials to the posts of Crimean  security chief and head of interior forces in the autonomous republic.
But the Crimean parliament reacted by voting to name Kuznetsov as Crimean  interior minister and appointing its own candidate as security minister.
The ITAR-TASS news agency quoted sources from the Black Sea fleet, based  in the Crimean port of Sevastopol, as saying that 1,000 elite troops and  members of the national guard had arrived overnight in two airfields near the  city.
But the Ukrainian defence ministry categorically denied that report.
