Angolan rebels on Monday shelled the  government-held town of Malanje in the north of the country, causing the  United Nations further to suspend relief flights, official radio reported.
Rebels of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA)  continued their battle for the town, where a UN plane delivering food aid came  under artillery fire as it tried to land on Friday, officials said.
The United Nations subsequently suspended flights but did not blame either  party to the conflict for firing on the plane, which returned safely to the  capital Luanda.
The government military accused UNITA of carrying out the attack.
At the height of renewed civil war last year, after UNITA lost  UN-supervised general elections in September 1992, more than 100 people were  dying every day in Malanje because of the fighting and famine.
Relief officials said the situation has improved, but Malanje alone hosts  more than 240,000 people displaced by the war, according to UN figures.
The government has announced the suspension of relief flights to the  central highlands town of Huambo, Angola's second city and the stronghold of  Jonas Savimbi's armed opposition.
Minister of Assistance and Social Reintegration Albino Malungo said Sunday  that the decision was taken after UNITA forces looted UN food warehouses in  the centre of the city.
In another development, at least five civilians were killed at the weekend  when their vehicle was ambushed and destroyed in the Jamba-Mineira region of  Huila province in the far south of the country, the radio said Monday.
The radio blamed UNITA for the attack and reported further fighting  between UNITA and the army near Matala in the centre of the province, without  giving any details or casualty figures.
The battles continued after negotiators from the warring sides returned on  Saturday from marathon UN-mediated talks in the Zambian capital, Lusaka, to  report back to their respective leaderships.
UNITA spokesman Jorge Valentim spoke of several outstanding sticking  points in the talks, which have been under way since November, and told AFP  that the discussions had reached a crucial phase where top-level consultations  were necessary.
Sources close to the talks said there were outstanding disagreements on  three issues in an 18-point agenda, notably power-sharing and UNITA's demand  for the governorship of Huambo.
The talks were expected to resume in Lusaka on Wednesday.
Until a first peace pact was signed in May 1991, UNITA had been battling  the formerly Marxist People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola, in power  in Luanda, since independence from Portugal in 1975.
