French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur pleaded on  Thursday for a Stability Pact that would liquidate Europe's "old conflicts"  and "old quarrels."
He was speaking at the opening of a two-day conference of 41 countries  that will aim at preventing new wars in Europe by settling potential border  disputes and solving the problems of minorities.
The conference, which is Balladur's brainchild, was opened by UNESCO  director general Federico Mayor at the organisation's headquarters here.
Balladur said "we must begin by liquidating the old quarrels, resolving  the old conflicts, dissipating the old fears, we must stabilise our continent  as far as borders and minority rights are concerned."
It would then be possible to build the whole of Europe on the basis of  more fairly shared prosperity, freedom "and a better organised defence in the  service of all," Balladur said.
The prime minister said the conference's objective should be to sign the  Stability Pact by early next year, perhaps in February "but perhaps it will  take longer."
The pact would incorporate existing good-neighbour agreements, such as  recognition of the Oder-Neisse frontier between Germany and Poland, and new  accords to be reached in the interval, Balladur said.
Aim of the pact was to reconcile the idea of "numerous countries to join  the European Union with the need to preserve the unity of our continent and  thus develop very close relations with Russia," the prime minister said.
He added that the "greater Europe of the future" should enjoy "privileged  relations of partnership" with Moscow.
Russia is represented at the conference by Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev  and the United States by Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs Peter  Tarnoff.
The conference is chaired by Greece in its capacity as current president  of the EU after the union adopted Balladur's initiative.
Balladur said Thursday the pact would be closely linked with the  Conference on Cooperation and Security (CSCE) in Europe.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said this week that the summit aimed to  settle border and minority problems between "countries with the vocation of  entering the EU," following the collapse of the Soviet bloc.
They are six central and eastern European countries -- Poland, the Czech  Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania -- and the three Baltic  countrie-s - Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. Only one country that emerged from  former Yugoslavia - Slovenia - has also been invited.
Wars that have already broken out in Bosnia and the Caucasus and the  conflict between Russia and Ukraine over Crimea will be left out.
Juppe said the conference would be an "exercise in preventive diplomacy"  for future EU members, and European Affairs Minister Alain Lamassoure said the  union, while prepared to accept new members, was unwilling to take on board  "new sources of conflict."
The aim was to "provide a political impetus" to handle good-neighbour  problems "better and quicker," Juppe said.
On the agenda are the big Hungarian minorities in Romania (1.6 million)  and Slovakia (600,000).
Budapest is anxious to protect their rights to autonomy, notably in the  cultural field, while the Romanian and Slovakian governments are seeking  Hungarian acceptance of the inviolability of existing frontiers.
The conference will also attempt to deal with the problem of Russian  minorities in the three Baltic countries and the withdrawal of Russian troops.
The four candidate members of the EU -- Finland, Norway, Sweden and  Austria -- are  attending the Paris conference, along with the three  neighbours of the central European Visegrad group -- Belarus, Moldova and  Ukraine.
Apart from Russia and the United States, eight other states with a direct  interest in European stability are also taking part -- Albania, Canada,  Cyprus, Iceland, Malta, Switzerland, Turkey and the Vatican.
