Sarajevo inched a bit closer to normality Tuesday  as a petrol station offering reasonably priced fuel opened for the first time  in more than two years of war.
The station is located on the battered city's main thoroughfare, the  notorious Sniper's Alley that was a no-man's land in the worst days of the  fighting.
More than 100 cars and trucks were already queuing up Tuesday morning when  the station opened, offering diesel fuel for 1.5 German marks (about 90 US  cents) per liter and premium petrol for 1.7 marks (about a dollar) per liter.
Last winter, when the Serb siege of the Bosnian capital was in full force,  premium gasoline went for about 30 marks (18 dollars) a liter on the black  market.
The black market price has fallen steadily since a ceasefire was declared  in February.
The petrol on sale at the downtown station is rationed, with drivers of  cars able to buy up to 30 marks' worth of diesel fuel and truck drivers  allotted up to 80 marks' worth (48 dollars).
The manager of the station said its reopening was a direct result of an  accord calling for the creation of a Moslem-Croat federation in Bosnia.
Under that deal, petroleum products can be imported from Croatia via its  port city of Ploce.
The fuel reaches Sarajevo without hitting Serb checkpoints thanks to two  routes opened by the UN Protection Force through Sarajevo airport for  transporting people and merchandise. The roads were opened under an agreement  by the Moslem-led government and the Serbs.
With that partial lifting of the siege, Sarajevo residents have access to  petrol that is much cheaper than that consumed by the Bosnian Serbs, who get  theirs from Serbia proper, crippled by UN sanctions.
Cars chugging through the streets of Sarajevo are yet another sign of life  limping back to normal in the city.
Some traffic lights work again, police check drivers' licenses, and  motorists used to parking anywhere now face hefty fines for infractions -- to  recover a car that has been towed away, they must cough up 100 marks (60  dollars) and seven liters of diesel fuel.
