Turnout was high Monday as Dominican voters  cast ballots for a new president, but some black citizens of Haitian origin  were turned away from the polls.
The top two candidates were President Joaquin Balaguer, a blind  87-year-old who has loomed large over the Dominican Republic's politics since  dictator Rafael Trujillo was assassinated in 1961, and social democrat Jose  Francisco Pena Gomez, 57, who aspires to be the country's first black  president.
A third candidate is former president Juan Bosch, a long-time Balaguer  rival who was ousted in a 1963 coup.
It was expected to be a close race, with the most recent polls showing  Pena Gomez in the lead with 33 percent to 27 percent for Balaguer.
Hundreds of voters lined up here to vote under a hot Caribbean sun, with  up to 3.3 million ballots expected to be cast before the day's end to pick a  president, vice president, 30 senators, 120 deputies and 107 mayors.
Electoral officials took over the national radio and television network to  prevent candidates or their surrogates from inciting trouble after a campaign  season in which 30 people were killed in street fights among rival political  groups.
The government said no incidents were reported Monday.
But in the tiny town of Ingenio San Luis, just 20 kilometers (16 miles)  outside the capital, black citizens identifiable as descendents of Haitians by  their halting Spanish were blocked from voting even after showing voter  identification cards, witnesses said.
Some blacks in Ingenio San Luis were allowed to vote but their ballots  were put in a separate bin for investigation into whether their identification  cards were fraudulent, witnesses said.
A delegate of the ruling Christian Social Reformist Party told AFP the  turned-away voters "would vote for their man," referring to Pena Gomez.  Supporters of Balaguer have painted Pena Gomez as possibly too friendly toward  neighboring Haiti, emphasizing his supposed black Haitian roots.
There was also a much heavier military presence in the town than in the  capital.
The situation was similar in the dozens of hamlets and towns with largely  black populations.
For generations, Haitians have been crossing the border to cut sugar cane  in the Dominican Republic and, in general, in search of a better life.
With unemployment here about 30 percent, competition for jobs is intense  and racism against Haitians often has led to mass killings. Haiti is  overwhelmingly black, while the Dominican Republic officially is 75 percent  mixed-race or "mulato", 15 percent white and 10 percent black.
A spokesman for Pena Gomez's Dominican Revolutionary Party said many  blacks were prevented from voting and in some places blacks were hunted down  and their identification cards taken from them.
Responding to opposition complaints that many voters in the country's  interior had not had a chance to cast ballots, the government electoral  committee late Monday decided to keep polls open three hours longer than had  been planned, until 0100 GMT (Tuesday). First results were expected to be  released before midnight (0400 GMT Tuesday).
The euphoria of the last days of campaigning continued into Monday.
Supporters of the various candidates drove up and down the streets of the  capital honking horns. Merengue music and chants of party slogans filled the  air.
Though personalities and domestic economic issues were the focus of the  campaign, the crisis in neighboring Haiti did intrude in the debate.
Both Balaguer and Pena Gomez said they opposed any military intervention  in Haiti, a prospect raised by US President Bill Clinton, who has also called  for tougher action to halt the smuggling of embargoed supplies across the  Dominican-Haitian border.
A UN arms and oil embargo on Haiti is aimed at pressing its military  rulers to step down.
Neither leading Dominican candidate spoke out firmly against the booming  border trade, an unusual commercial opportunity in one of the poorest  countries in the Americas.
