Diplomats from Europe, Russia and the United States  prepared to meet here Friday amid disarray for yet another attempt to get to  grips with the conflict in Bosnia-Hercegovina.
A senior US official said the aim was to "focus on cessation of  hostilities linked with an early resumption of negotiations" between the  Bosnian Serbs and the recently-agreed Moslem-Croat federation.
But he acknowledged that the Serbs were demanding a lifting of UN  sanctions against their backers in the rump Yugoslavia before they would  return to the negotiating table, something which the United States opposes.
Washington, represented by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, also  went into the talks embarrassed by a vote Thursday by the US Senate that the  administration should unilaterally allow US arms shipments to the  mainly-Moslem Bosnian government in defiance of a 1991 UN embargo.
US President Bill Clinton favours lifting the embargo to allow the  government forces to defend themselves, but says it must be a multilateral  move. The Senate vote, while having virtually no chance of becoming law,  undercut him the day before the Geneva talks.
Friday's conference also follows strong words from France that it might be  obliged to pull its forces out of the UN peacekeeping operation in Bosnia if  peace can not be obtained, and continuing disagreement over how territory  might be divided among the warring sides.
But despite earlier pessimism from Washington, the US official here said  it was "possible to a large extent" to "agree on some kind of approach"  towards resolving the problem.
He said that both sides had indicated interest in a cessation of  hostilities, the Serbs because of the 70 percent of Bosnia they controlled was  "more they can effectively occupy," and the Sarajevo government because it  wanted to "calm things down in the hope negotiations resume."
The official said the Geneva conference should also reaffirm support for  decisions on the six UN-declared safe areas and prevent offensive actions  elsewhere.
On Thursday fighting was reported at Tuzla and Bihac, both declared safe  areas, and at Brcko, a potential flashpoint, while a UN military observer was  killed and another seriously wounded on the edge of the Sarajevo exclusion  zone.
UN Secretary-general Boutros Boutros-Ghali called Thursday in a statement  published in New York for the boundaries of the safe areas, where Moslems are  under siege from Serbs, to be clearly defined.
He also ruled out extending the safe areas, for example to Brcko, saying  the UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR) did not have the resources to cover them.
"It must be recognized that safe areas do not in themselves represent a  long-term solution to the fundamental conflict in Bosnia and Hercegovina,  which requires a political and territorial solution," Boutros-Ghali added.
The UN chief met in Paris Thursday with civilian and military chiefs  operating in the former Yugoslavia, including special representative Yasushi  Akashi, UNPROFOR commander General Bertrand de Lapresle, peace negotiator  Thorvald Stoltenberg and his European Union colleague Lord Owen.
The meeting covered Stoltenberg and Owen's mandate for the Geneva talks,  as well as ways of improving communications between UNPROFOR, Boutros-Ghali  and the UN Security Council.
A communique said the UN wanted to see the participants at Geneva agree at  least on the need to establish a general ceasefire in Bosnia as soon as  possible and to deal with the whole problem of the conflict on a global and  not a piecemeal basis.
Questioned on the possibility of lifting UN sanctions against Belgrade,  held responsible for inciting the conflict, to encourage the Serbs to return  to the negotiating table, the US official said this could begin once the Serbs  had made a verified withdrawal of their forces to agreed lines.
As well as Christopher, Owen and Stoltenberg, the Geneva conference brings  together the foreign ministers of Russia and five from the European Union:  Britain and France which have the largest contingents of peacekeepers in  Bosnia, current president of the council of ministers Greece, its predecessor  Belgium and its successor Germany.
Saturday sees the signature of the agreement between Bosnian Croats and  Moslems on their federation, which the Serbs have refused to join. The  federation has also caused unease by claiming 58 percent of  Bosnia-Hercegovina, more than the Geneva participants have been prepared to  agree.
