Debate in the Thai parliament turned ugly this  week as government and opposition MPs traded insults over allegations that  senior politicians were involved in drug trafficking.
Tempers flared and at one point a government MP, angered by what he said  were insults to his family, followed an opposition member outside where he  shoved him in the back, local media reported.
"What a mess we have here," Pichet Phanvichartikul, an MP with Prime  Minister Chuan Leekpai's Democrat Party, said in parliament.
Earlier Chuan told the House: "I have to confirm that several politicians,  both at the local and national levels, are suspected of being involved in the  drug trade."
He vowed to take action against drug dealers but said he had insufficient  evidence to warrant the arrest of any MP.
During two days of heated debate Wednesday and Thursday, parliament heard  charges and counter-charges of narcotics trade links involving national and  local politicians as well as businessmen and members of the military.
No-one was officially implicated, but local media either named names or  identified suspects by initials and constituencies, leaving little doubt as to  who was under suspicion.
On Wednesday, opposition MPs staged a walkout to protest the government's  failure to appear before the House to clarify the published allegations.
Several MPs braved the publicity Thursday to stand up and deny the charges.
These included a teary-eyed Mongkol Chongsuthamanee, of the opposition  Chart Pattana party, who also said he would seek an explanation of a  government minister's statement that the United States had denied him an entry  visa.
The latest round of drugs allegations was kicked off May 4 by reports that  opposition MP Thanong Siripreechapong was wanted in the United States on  charges of trafficking in more than 45 tons of marijuana over a 14-year period.
The US embassy in Bangkok later released documents indicating that Thanong  has been secretly indicted by a California court in November 1991. The  indictment was unsealed after news of the charges appeared in the Bangkok  press.
The source of the news leak and the motivation behind it were not explained.
Earlier this week, Foreign Minister Prasong Soonsiri briefed the Cabinet  on broader drug trafficking allegations. Officially unconfirmed reports said  17 opposition politicians, including 10 sitting MPs, were involved.
