A spectacular occupation of the Belgium embassy by  more than 100 Cubans seeking asylum faced the government of President Fidel  Castro Sunday with the specter of a new wave of embassy takeovers.
Cuban police were surrounding the Belgiam ambassador's residence Sunday in  Miramar section of west Havana, where as many as 124 people, among them 24  children, broke in Saturday in a desperate bid to leave the country.
The asylum seekers appeared well organized, taking advantage in a weakness  in the residence's surveillance system. They gathered secretly in a  neighboring square, rushed the entry gate and scaled the security fence  shortly after noon.
Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina acknowledged Saturday the unusual  size of the group, but reasserted the government's policy of not dealing with  people trying to obtain asylum through "pressure and force."
"This is not the way, (not) the mechanism to follow for those who want to  leave the country," said Robaina. He appealed to the group to leave  voluntarily and end the standoff.
In Belgium, Foreign Minister Willy Claes signalled the Cubans would not be  allowed to stay in the residence.
He told RTBF radio: "We will attempt to ensure, at least that these people  are not pursued, that they are not punished if they have to leave the embassy."
In the most recent embassy takeover, eight Cubans who entered the Belgian  ambassador's residence in January surrendered peacefully a month later after  Belgium secured formal assurances from Cuban authorities that the eight would  face no charges.
Embassy takeovers are the source of special concern among diplomats here  as well as the government because it was a similar crisis at the Peruvian  embassy in 1980 that precipitated the Mariel boatlift.
In that case, Cuban officials lifted protection at the Peruvian embassy  after a guard was killed and more than 10,000 asylum seekers flooded in.
By the time the crisis had ended an estimated 128,000 people had fled to  Florida in a exodus of small craft, embarassing the Cuban government and  creating huge problems for the United States.
In July and August 1990 dozens of Cubans sought shelter in the Spanish,  Czech, Beligian, Italian, Canadian and Swiss diplomatic missions.
In contrast to its usual firmness, Cuban authorities allowed 11 Cubans to  leave the country last September after they sought asylum in the Mexican  embassy.
That unusual decision raised concern among diplomats in the Cuban capital,  who feared it would encourage a new wave of asylum seekers.
Deteriorating economic conditions since the collapse of the Soviet Union,  Cuba's main trading partner and ally, have further fueled Cuban attempts to  leave.
US Coast Guard figures chart a growing number of Cuban "boat people"  heading illegally for Florida shores.
The most recent known attempt just last week involved two Canadian  nationals now imprisoned in Havana. The Canadians, who said they came to take  part in a fishing contest, attempted to carry eight Cubans to Florida,  according to sources.
The escape attempt when awry when 15 more Cubans tried to board the boat  at the last minute. Three fell into the sea, and one was caught in the boat's  propellers and killed, according to the sources.
