The Israeli army pulled out of its  last positions in Gaza City early Wednesday behind clouds of teargas,  completing its withdrawal from newly-autonomous Palestinian land, an AFP  correspondent said.
Soldiers fired into the air and let off teargas canisters as they left  under a hail of stones and bottles thrown by jeering Palestinian youths.
The youngsters had gathered for one last confrontation with the Israelis  as they quit the military administration building, the police station and the  Hof military camp, where the feared Border Guards were stationed.
Palestinian policemen who took over the positions emptied their magazines  in the air in triumph, and throughout the town the sound of celebratory  volleys of automatic gunfire ripped through the night for around 15 minutes.
After 27 years of occupation, 35 days behind the April 13 deadline agreed  in the outline accord Israel signed with the Palestine Liberation Organisation  (PLO) in Washington on September 13, the Gaza Strip and the West Bank city of  Jericho and its environs passed into the hands of Palestinian police.
Street celebrations to toast the withdrawal ended in the kinds of clashes  between Palestinian youths and Israeli soldiers that have marked more than six  years of resistance since the Palestinian intifada, or uprising, began in  December 1987.
General Izthak Aharonovitz, commander of the Border Guards, dismissed the  last minute confrontation.
He told AFP: "It was a group of Hamas and Islamic Jihad extremists who  wanted to sour the taste of our departure. They do not represent the majority  of the people who want to live together.
"We wanted to hand the positions over to the Palestinian police without  incident," he said.
Colonel Shaoul Arieli, commander of the northern Gaza Strip, said: "I am  happy to be leaving. Now they are taking control of their own lives. It is the  beginning of the peace process between our two peoples."
Arieli, brought in to supervise the withdrawal, said he had handed the  positions over to representatives of the Palestinian police.
A senior Palestinian policeman told AFP that 850 officers from Jordan and  Egypt had come into the Gaza Strip overnight to take up their positions.
In the past week, 2,800 Palestinian policemen have arrived in the Gaza  Strip and another 462 in the Jericho region.
The Israeli army is now deployed around 19 Jewish settlements in the  Palestinian territory, where 4,000 settlers are living.
Around 800,000 Palestinians live in the Gaza Strip and a further 15,000 in  the Jericho region, not counting the million or so Palestinians who live  elsewhere in the occupied West Bank and in East Jerusalem.
On Tuesday morning, the military administration, which until now has  looked after every aspect of Palestinian daily life, handed over to the  Palestinian authority in the Gaza Strip, just as it had done in Jericho on  Friday.
A few hours before the soldiers left, hundreds of people, men of all ages,  women in Palestinian garb carrying small children, and above all youths,  gathered outside the military administration building to witness the end of  the historic withdrawal.
They chanted "Good riddance and don't come back" at the soldiers, and sang  the praises of PLO chairman Yasser Arafat.
The crowd burst into applause when a Moslem cleric, Sheikh Mohammad  Hassan, knelt and began to pray.
Fireworks lit up the sky, and a loudspeaker blared out patriotic songs as  the youths taunted the Israelis.
As the crowd mobbed the soldiers, Moslem fundamentalists from the Hamas  movement shook their fists in soldiers faces, shouting: "We want war, not  peace," and "Palestine from the sea to the river," meaning the annihilation of  Israel.
