North Korea, threatening to reignite an  international row Saturday, said it had begun refuelling a controversial  nuclear reactor without international inspectors who want to test if material  has been diverted for atomic weapons.
"The replacement of fuel rods has begun at our five-megawatt experimental  nuclear power station according to its operational plan," a North Korean  foreign ministry spokesman told the official Korean Central News Agency  monitored in Tokyo.
Pyongyang's action at its Yongbyong complex risks heightening the nuclear  standoff with South Korea and the United States. US officials believe  Yongbyong holds the key to whether or not North Korea has developed its own  nuclear bomb.
International Atomic Engery Agency (IAEA) inspectors were due to leave  Vienna on Sunday to go to North Korea.
If they do not get satisfactory access, Washington may carry out its  threat to ask the United Nations to impose sanctions against North Korea.  South Korea meanwhile fears the growing dispute will erupt into conflict.
The North Korean spokesman said the IAEA had refused to send inspectors to  observe refuelling at the Yongbyong plant unless fuel rods could be sampled.
"Under such conditions, we had no choice but to remove the seals and start  taking out fuel rods for safety reasons," the spokesman was quoted as saying  by the news agency.
The IAEA's inspectors were due to arrive in North Korea Tuesday.
Agency spokesman David Kyd said in Vienna earlier Saturday that North  Korea had begun "preparations" for changing fuel rods at Yongbyong. He said  the inspectors would cut short the visit if the operation had reached a  "critical stage."
The North Korean official said, "refuelling is taking place under the  watch of the cameras installed by the agency. So, there are no grounds for  concern about the diversion of the replaced fuel rods for another purpose."
The North Korean official added however that there remained "possibilites"  to resolve the nuclear impasse.
"We proposed negotiations to the agency to make an agreement on practical  matters related to being present at the replacement of fuel and complicated  outstanding issues linked to it," he said.
The North Korean spokesman reaffirmed Pyongyang was prepared to "store all  the spent fuel under the strict surveillance of the IAEA and fully allow the  IAEA to measure it" when the dispute is settled between North Korea and the  United States.
IAEA inspectors went into Yongbyong, 90 kilometres (55 miles) north of  Pyongyang in March. That followed a one-year halt of inspections of North  Korea's seven declared nuclear sites.
But North Korea denied them access to a radio-chemical laboratory at the  plant, further raising suspicions that it was developing nuclear arms. Western  experts believe the laboratory may be a processing facility.
The hardline communist state later notified the IAEA of its plan to refuel  the reactor at the experimental power station.
It said IAEA inspectors could watch the replacement of fuel rods. But it  refused to let them sample the rods to see whether North Koreans had removed  seals on the fuel. Testing the rods would determine whether fuel had been  diverted for a military programme.
North Korea threatened last year to totally withdraw from the Nuclear  Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). That followed a US-led campaign to force the  North to allow full international inspection of it's nuclear facilities,  including two undeclared sites.
Pyongyang "suspended" its decision to leave the treaty last June, but  continued to deny full inspections of its nuclear sites saying the country was  in a "unique" status under a suspended membership.
Earlier this month, Robert Gallucci, the US assistant secretary of state  for politico-military affairs, said he was not confident a diplomatic solution  could be found to the problem.
Gallucci has been closely involved in talks with North Korea in which  Washington is thought to have offered economic aid and diplomatic recognition  in return for nuclear inspections.
Defense Secretary William Perry said last week that "a very dangerous  situation" would be develop unless the standoff was ended.
