A small group of conservative and centrist senators  held the future of Italian Prime Minsiter Silvio Berlusconi's government in  the balance Wednesday as he faced a confidence vote in the Senate.
The senators are opposed to the presence of five neofascists in  Berlusconi's government, which is eight votes short of an absolute majority of  the 324 senators, and could vote against him on the the confidence motion due  late Wednesday.
If Berlusconi fails to garner the needed votes, his government would  collapse, forcing President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro to either ask him to form a  new cabinet or call new elections that could plunge the country into crisis.
But analysts and the Italian media said that scenario was unlikely as  Italy's former Christian Democrat leaders who hold the deciding Senate votes  would not want to be blamed for such a crisis.
They said Berlusconi's best chance of winning the vote was if several of  the opposing senators from the Italian Popular Party (PPI), comprised of the  former Christian Democrats, simply abstain from voting, as several have hinted  they may do.
Christian-Democratic Senator Luigi Grillo has called for a "technical  abstention" in order to allow the new cabinet to begin operating, two months  after Berlusconi's rightwing Freedom Alliance coalition swept general  elections.
Meanwhile another senator, Pietro Giurickovic, from the small leftist  Democratic Alliance, claimed that Berlusconi's Forza Italia party had promised  him the presidency of a parliamentary commission if he helped the Freedom  Alliance government win the confidence vote.
He said he declined the offer which was made even before Berlusconi had  picked his cabinet members.
Forza Italia has denied the report.
Observers said even if Berlusconi wins the confidence vote Wednesday, his  government faces a tug of war with the opposition everytime it needs to pass  legislation through the Senate.
Forza Italia and its coalition partners, the federalist Northern League  and the neo-Fascist National Alliance, hold an absolute majority in the lower  chamber of parliament.
Nicola Mancino, the head of the PPI which holds 34 seats in the Senate, on  Tuesday urged a "change in the majority," proposing that Berlusconi break with  the National Alliance and form a new coalition government with the centrist  and some center-left parties.
Mancino said the National Alliance, created by Gianfranco Fini, the  general secretary of the neo-fascist Italian Social Movement, was "a source of  concern."
He also called on Berlusconi to divest himself of private business  interests within "one or two months at the most" in order to limit any  conflicts of interest for the millionaire media magnate and politician.
Berlusconi's Fininvest communications group is Italy's second largest  business with interests ranging from television and the media to the AC Milan  football club.
The new premier was due to respond to his critics' concerns in an address  to the Senate shortly before Wednesday's confidence vote.
In a policy statement to parliament on Monday, Berlusconi conceded  "legitimate concerns" over the presence of the five neo-fascists in his  cabinet, but pledged his right-wing coalition would adhere to Italy's  democratic structures.
