Tough-talking US officials may stand tall at  home with a strident Asian policy but they are having questionable success in  achieving their aims from a more self-confident and defiant Asia.
Domestic interests have often hogtied US foreign policy toward the key  players of China, Japan and North and South Korea as Washington tries to  dovetail competing trade, rights and post Cold War security concerns.
Washington has, for example, asked China to use its considerable influence  with North Korea to stop Pyongyang's nuclear aims while simultaneously  threatening Beijing with tough trade sanctions over human rights concerns.
In the past, immense US economic and military power allowed it some room  to act unilaterally in pursuing its goals. Now, Asians still want strong  economic ties with United States, but on their own terms.
"There is a new confidence in Asia. They are doing very well and they are  not prepared to be preached at anymore, said William Clark, former assistant  secretary of state for East Asia and Pacific affairs.
"Everyone in Asia now is going to be looking more at the importance of  inter-Asian trade than trade with us. We are still important there, but we are  not nearly as important as we used to be."
Asia's willingness to defy US demands has made that all too apparent, said  Clark, who is now the senior Asia advisor for the Center for Strategic and  International Studies here.
Japan walked away from the negotiating table in February over US demands  that it open its markets, and China has not only failed to fully meet demands  for improvements in human rights but arrested more dissidents.
Clinton was on track five months ago in Seattle when he proclaimed the  birth of a new Pacific community of shared trade and security interests, said  Bob Manning, of the Progressive Policy Institute.
"But somehow, we have gotten into a confrontation with almost every  country in the region," he said.
Indonesia and Malaysia have bristled at US demands for workers rights,  Thailand resisted intellectual property rights and India was slighted by an  18-month delay in getting a US ambassador and the prospect of 38 F-16 fight  jets being delivered to its rival Pakistan.
