Cambodian peace talks in North Korea ended   Saturday with the government and Khmer Rouge agreeing to further negotiations  and King Norodom Sihanouk hinting that a ceasefire was close at hand.
The government and rebels have agreed to form a standing committee to  begin meeting June 15 to deal with issues dividing the two sides in Cambodia's  civil war, according to a joint declaration released by the Royal Palace here.
The Cambodian government and the Khmer Rouge also pledged to keep  Cambodia's territory intact, without partition or secession, in the aim of  stability, as the two-day meeting drew to a close, the statement said.
The joint declaration said the government and the rebels would do their  best to work for a ceasefire and national reconciliation, although the two  sides failed to come up with a concrete peace plan.
King Sihanouk, speaking at a banquet in Pyongyang, said both sides  achieved "positive results" in talks over a ceasefire but that "the date has  yet to be designated," according to a North Korean Central News Agency report  monitored in Tokyo.
The peace talks, which began Friday and were scheduled to end Monday, were  hosted by King Sihanouk and brought together co-premiers Prince Norodom  Ranariddh and Hun Sen, parliament chairman Chea Sim and Khmer Rouge nominal  leader Khieu Samphan.
During the talks, Khieu Samphan raised the possibility of including  members of his radical faction in the government and armed forces, one of the  points in a peace plan proposed by King Sihanouk.
The king's plan would give government posts to "acceptable" members of the  Khmer Rouge, despite their boycott of United Nations-sponsored elections in  1993, in return for opening up their zones and merging their forces with the  Cambodian army.
The Khmer Rouge were responsible for the deaths of some one million  Cambodians during a four-year reign of terror that ended when Vietnamese  troops invaded Cambodia in late 1978.
Prince Ranariddh and Hun Sen agreed last week to a proposal from King  Sihanouk for a ceasefire if the two sides failed to reach a political solution  at the talks, suggesting June 15 as a starting date.
The Khmer Rouge expressed support earlier this week for the ceasefire and  the setting up of a joint ceasefire commission, but said agreement would be  dependent on the participation of international observers.
They said the role of the observers -- to be chosen from among five of ten  suggested countries -- would be to monitor the ceasefire and prevent weapons,  ammunition and unspecified foreign forces from entering Cambodia.
The countries mentioned were Brunei, Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Sri Lanka,  Nepal, Switzerland, Austria, Finland, the Philippines and Egypt.
A foreign military expert here said the Khmer Rouge demand was probably a  ploy to delay implementation of a ceasefire, as it would be impossible to get  observers in place by June 15.
He added that most of the countries suggested by the rebels had also  little experience in Cambodia.
The rebels accused the government Friday of undermining the peace process  by seeking foreign military aid, citing the visit of a US defence official  here three days ago as evidence the United States wanted to arm Phnom Penh.
They were referring to a meeting here between the US deputy assistant  secretary of defence, Kent Weidemann, and Cambodian Defence Minister Tea Banh.
Tea Banh said the two ministers discussed the military situation in  Cambodia, but he would not say if the talks had touched on the question of  sending military aid.
