Italian prosecutors demanded Saturday that  seven-time Christian Democrat prime minister Giulio Andreotti be indicted on  charges of collusion with the Mafia.
The Palermo prosecutors office made its request to local judges after an  investigation launched in March 1992 into the senator's alleged links to the  Sicilian Mafia.
Andreotti, 75, (eds: correct) is a senator for life, but had his  parliamentary immunity lifted in June last year.
Andreotti, who served as a government minister 33 times in nearly 50 years  of political activity, has denied accusations by former Mafia members that he  was a protector of top crime figures for nearly 15 years and may have ordered  two mob killings. The former premier has himself asked to stand trial.
The prosecutor's request can be accepted or rejected by Sergio La Commare,  the judge dealing with preliminary enquiries in Palermo. He is due to receieve  the 30-file-thick dossier in the next few days.
The judges who have drawn up the document have had checks made on  Andreotti's visits to Sicily. Officials defending the former premier argue  that he could not have moved around Sicily without an escort and could  therefore not have met Mafia elements as judicial sources claim.
But prosecutors say there is evidence to suggest Andreotti several times  managed during 1987 to shrug off his bodyguard services while visiting the  island.
The Mafia sources, who have decided to approach the judiciary in exchange  for protection and reduced sentences, have accused Andreotti of helping to  arrange various deals in order to strengthen his party's electoral position in  Sicily.
The Mafiosi say Andreotti secretly met with well-known financiers believed  to act as Mafia intermediaries with politicians, as well as with Toto Riina,  head of the Casa Nostra organisation.
The Palermo assassination in March 1992 of Salvo Lima, a European  Parliament deputy politically very close to Andreotti, was allegedly due to  the former premier's breaking off relations with the Mafia, as was the  subsequent erosion of support for the Christian Democrats in Sicily in 1992  elections.
Andreotti repudiates all the allegations against him, saying the Mafia  directly threatened him because of his clampdown against the organisation.
