One man was believed shot and two were arrested  after youths fired at police and set fire to vehicles in loyalist areas of  Belfast, late Friday, police said.
Gun shots were fired in the Ballysillan area of north Belfast and police,  who returned fire said they believed they had hit one man.
His condition was not known.
Two people were arrested and a hand-gun was recovered, after an attempt to  hijack a bus in the Donegall Road area.
Automatic gun fire was directed at police in Sandy Row near the city  centre.
In addition police said several vehicles had been hijacked and set on fire.
The violence followed the court appearance Friday of a suspected loyalist  terrorist -- one of 20 loyalist suspects arrested in a police swoop Monday.
It also came after calls for an end to Protestant loyalist and Catholic  republican violence, following a British response to demands for clarification  of the December 15 declaration for peace in Northern Ireland from Sinn Fein,  the political wing of the Irish Republican Army.
Earlier Friday, the first alleged member of the loyalist paramilitary  Ulster Freedom Fighters to face charges of directing terrorism appered in  court.
John Adair, 30, from Shankill Road, west Belfast was charged with  "directing activities of an organisation concerned in the commission of acts  of terrorism, namely the Ulster Freedom Fighters".
Also Friday, Ulster Unionist James Molyneaux, called for an immediate halt  to the loyalist campaign of violence and it was reported loyalist  paramilitaries were seriously considering his call.
He said it would be a small step for loyalist paramilitaries to enter the  democratic process saying: "There is no bar now to any paramilitary body  terminating violence after a period of three months entering into exploratory  discussion".
On Thursday London provided a detailed response to 20 questions from Sinn  Fein.  The response included the promise of a referendum on the future of  Northern Ireland if the question of a united Ireland arose during peace talks.
Sinn Fein has yet to respond to the December 15 joint declaration, which  offered it a full part in Northern Ireland peace talks once the IRA renounced  violence for a minimum of three months.
The party said it would not reply to Thursday's response until after the  June European elections.
Since the beginning of the year, 30 people have died in sectarian killings  in Northern Ireland -- 13 claimed by the IRA, 17 by Protestant militia.
