Hundreds of mourners bayed for the blood of southern  leader Ali Salem al-Baid Wednesday as they buried victims of Monday's Scud  missile attack on the capital.
Crowds lined the streets here as the bodies covered in white shrouds were  carried aloft on stretchers from the central mosque to the At-Tahrir (Freedom)  cemetery.
"Death to Ali Salem al-Baid" they chanted at the cemetery gates, as the  funerals of the first nine victims took place. They included three children,  one of them a toddler buried next to its mother.
Officials in Sanaa said at least 13 people were killed and more than 100  injured when the missile struck a densely-populated area of the capital late  Monday, destroying houses and damaging a hospital.
Meanwhile a southern military spokesman in Aden said 400 northern troops  had been killed in fierce fighting around the key military base of Al-Anad,  which the south had recaptured from the north.
Fighting has raged around the base, 60 kilometres (36 miles) north of the  southern stronghold of Aden, since civil war broke out on May 5 between troops  loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh and forces headed by his southern rival  Baid.
The base, at the gateway to the road to Aden, was seized by northern  troops on May 17. There had been no confirmation or denial from Sanaa  Wednesday that it had lost control.
In the capital, Monday's missile attack provoked outrage among mourners  who gathered to witness the funerals.
"This is a criminal act. More rockets will increase our determination to  cleanse our Yemeni land of the criminals' dirty bodies," said Hussein  al-Sayaghy, a 42-year-old engineer.
At least 22 surface-to-surface missiles have been fired by southern troops  into the north of Yemen since the start of hostilities. The north has also  retaliated by firing missiles on Aden.
Koranic verses were chanted during the burials, as gravediggers lowered  the bodies into the graves and then filled them in with stone blocks and wet  clay.
They had been brought in Red Crescent vans to the central Kubit  al-Mutawakil (Dome of the Faithful) mosque for prayers, before being taken to  the cemetery.
In Aden a spokesman said that troops from the newly declared Yemeni  Democratic Republic had inflicted "heavy losses on enemy troops on all the war  fronts."
Witnesses said northern troops had kept up the pressure on southern troops  deployed around Aden in a bid to defend the city from a northern advance.
A southern spokesman said in Kharaz Bab al-Mandeb, west of Aden, "all  enemy units had been wiped out" by troops, while in Abyan in the east of Aden  "hundreds of northern troops had been killed or wounded" in a southern  counter-offensive.
Fighting was still reported in the vital oil-rich province of Shabwa.
On the diplomatic front, Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Mussa met with US  charge d'affairs in Egypt Edmund Hull for the second time in two days to  discuss ways of promoting dialogue between the warring leaders.
The south's declaration of independence ended four years of troubled union  between the former conservative, tribal North Yemen and the Marxist South.
Hull told reporters Egypt and the United States were working to reach a  ceasefire agreement and open talks between the two sides.
United Arab Emirates (UAE) President Sheikh Zayed ibn Sultan al-Nahyan  warned Saleh in a telephone call that he could not impose unity on Yemen by  force, the official agency WAM said.
The UAE implictly recognised the new independent southern republic Tuesday  by referring to Baid as "the president."
So far the new republic has not been officially recognised by any country.
