Rival tribal wings of one of Liberia's armed  factions fought fierce battles at their headquarters town of Tubmanburg, a UN  World Food Programme (WFP) official said Friday.
"There was street fighting throughout the night and the fighting subsided  Friday morning," WFP representative Gerald Van Dijk told AFP. "Skirmishes were  still taking place."
The battle began as the WFP was delivering relief supplies in the town  held by the United Liberation Movement (ULIMO), 60 kilometres (37 miles) north  of the capital Monrovia.
Van Dijk said men from the Krahn tribe, who laid siege to Tubmanburg three  weeks ago, attacked fighters of the Mandingo people entrenched in the town. He  was unable to say how many guerrillas and civilians had been killed.
"The fighting forced UN monitors in Tubmanburg to remain confined to their  base, where hundreds of civilians were pouring in, in search of refuge," he  said.
Troops of the African multi-national ECOMOG peacekeeping force posted  around the town appeared not to have intervened in the battle, Van Dijk said.
More people were around than usual at the time of the attack because the  food delivery had brought villagers into town from the bush, he added.
Clashes between the Mandingos, led by ULIMO president Alhaji Kromah, and  the Krahns, headed by ULIMO military chief General Roosevelt Johnson, began in  March.
The Krahns accuse their rivals of taking the majority of posts attributed  to ULIMO in transitional institutions formed under a July 1993 peace pact in  the run-up to elections planned for September.
A mediation bid by the United Nations and ECOMOG, which was first deployed  by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in 1990, ended in  failure on May 11 after three days of heated talks.
Three UN experts have been in Liberia since the beginning of the week to  help prepare for the presidential and general elections, theoretically due to  end four years of civil war.
Maurice Glele Ahanhanzo of Benin, Louis Masicotte of Canada and Renaud  Bemadin of the Seychelles have met members of the transitional adminstration  and representatives of political parties and unions.
They were still due Friday to talk to ECOMOG personnel, representatives of  UN agencies and non-governmental organisations and the diplomatic corps.
The three have said their aim was to present a large range of electoral  systems under which polls are held in many countries.
On Thursday, UN special envoy to Liberia Trevor Gordon-Somers said the  United Nations was "worried" that it would not be possible to keep to the  electoral timetable.
"With the Angolan experience, the United Nations will have nothing to do  with elections in Liberia if the country is not free of arms," Gordon-Somers  said, referring to the renewed civil war that broke out in Angola after rebels  lost UN-supervised general elections in September 1992.
There was "serious concern about the security problem in many parts of the  country," he added.
ULIMO and the two other main factions in Liberia, the National Patriotic  Front (NPFL) and the Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL), have since March 7 been  supposed to turn over their weapons to ECOMOG and encamp.
But only 3,000 fighters of an estimated 60,000 have done so.
