Monday's French Open notebook:
Fortune tellers take no chances
Those who claim to be able to see the future are not expecting any major  surprises at Roland Garros over the next fortnight. A collection of 60 mediums  and fortune tellers canvassed at a 'Body and Spirit' exhibition in Paris were  all surprisingly close to the bookies in their assesment of who will scoop the  major prizes.
Gazing into their crystal balls, most of the mediums could see a man with  brown hair and a blonde woman lifting the singles crowns. Peering a little  deeper and the murky figures began to resemble Pete Sampras and Sergi Bruguera  in the men's and Steffi Graf in the women's: In other words, the men's world  number one and the two defending champions.
Those willing to put their necks out a little further added that Jim  Courier would not reach the final because of a fall while the cards indicated  that Boris Becker and Andre Agassi were too distracted by romantic engagements  to win.
The prediction that Becker would not win has already come true. But it was  a bad back not love sickness that ruled the German out on Monday. (AFP)
Muster adds weight to challenge
Thomas Muster, the Austrian considered one of the world's most dangerous  players on clay, has beefed up his challenge for this year's tournament with  one of the heaviest raquets seen on the circuit. The weapon Muster will wield  in his first round clash with Andrei Cherkasov weighs in at 400 grammes -- or  just under a pound -- some ten percent heavier than most of the other male  players. (AFP)
Noisy show court
The French tennis federation is justly proud of its ultra-modern new show  court at Roland Garros but officials may have overlooked an accoustic problem.
The shape of the 10,000-seat court A -- like a half-lemon turned upside  down with a wedge cut out of it -- is perfect for spectators to bask in the  spring sunshine. But it also means that the noise is much less enclosed than  on the old centre and number one courts. Japan's Naoko Sawamatsu, playing on  the adjacent court 12, was one of several players to be distracted by the  decibel overspill from the new court on Monday morning. (AFP)
am94
