Pele will forever be associated with World Cup  football and there is every likelihood the Boys from Brazil will again triumph  in the United States in July.
Brazil are the only side to have played in all 14 previous tournaments,  winning in 1958, 1962 and 1970, and they also looked good enough to win in  1982 and 1986.
No European country has ever crossed the Atlantic to win the greatest  prize in world sport and there is no reason to think things should be any  different this time even if the USA can be classed as neutral in soccer terms.
Brazil will kick off against Russia in San Francisco on June 20 top of the  FIFA rankings and firmly installed as favourites to lift the trophy for the  first time since Pele led them to glorious triumph in Mexico in 1970 and  ensured the Jules Rimet trophy would stay forever in Brazil.
That side, dedicated to the maxim that perpetual attack is the best form  of defence, carved itself a permanent place in football folkore.
Attempts to paper over individual weaknesses by copying European styles  have proved disastrous and the nearest any team came to living up to the 1970  ideal was in 1982. Zico, Socrates and Falcao enthralled Spanish crowds with  the beauty of their passing and the fluency of their movement.
But even that collection of talents assembled by Tele Santana was not good  enough to match the ruthless efficiency of Enzo Bearzot's Italy. Paolo Rossi's  hat-trick eliminated the Brazilians in one of the greatest ever World Cup  matches and he played a prominent part in the final against West Germany.
European organisation and tactical discipline seemed finally to have  triumphed over South American flair and technique.
But there are signs that the current coach, Carlos Alberto Parreira, a  physiotherapist to the 1970 squad, has finally managed to create a Brazilian  blend with a winning flavour.
Parreira's side might lack a really outstanding playmaker -- Rai has yet  to fully emerge from the shadow of his elder brother Socrates -- but no other  side will be able to match the quality of the Brazilians in every position on  the field.
The current crop of players are all established internationals at the peak  of their careers. The typical Brazilian in the United States will be 29, have  at least 40 caps and be playing with one of Europe's top clubs.
Romario, who will lead Brazil's attack, is convinced Parreira has got the  balance right.
"He knows how to mix European and Brazilian influences," the Barcelona  striker said. "In 1990 we were too defensive. With Parreira we have gone back  to an approach that is closer to the spirit of 1970 but with more attention to  discipline at the back."
Parreira, while insisting Brazil are good enough to win, has been careful  not to build up expectations.
"In 1970 we had three and a half months preparation and not a single  player outside Brazil," he recalled. "This time we might have some of our  European players for only 18 days before the competition starts."
If Brazil are finally to claim their fourth World Cup, Parreira sees  Italy, Argentina and Germany, winners respectively in 1982, 1986 and 1990, as  the principal obstacles.
But there must be major doubts about the ability of all three to stand up  to the physical and mental pressures of what will be a gruelling month.
Germany have had only one bad tournament in the last 20 years and that was  in 1978 when Franz Beckenbauer refused to play. Their 1990 win followed two  losing finals.
But the current side is beginning to look past its sell-by date. Lothar  Matthaus, the cutting edge of the side that won in Italy, is now playing at  sweeper for Bayern Munich and Juventus's Andreas Moller has yet to prove he  can fill his midfield boots.
Coach Berti Vogts' search for a reliable striker got so desperate that the  wily old Rudi Voller has had to shake off the moth-balls of two years of  international inactivity.
The weakness of the Germans was exposed last December when they were  comprehensively outplayed in Miami by an Argentina side that was missing half  its first choice side.
After some appalling qualifying performances the Argentinians appear to be  running into form and Japan's decision last week to bar Diego Maradona for his  drugs record has galvanised the side.
The affront seems to have transferred the chip on Maradona's shoulder to  the rest of the team. A 'We'll show them' attitude has united the side.
Italy know at least that in Roberto Baggio they have the player with the  potential to be the outstanding individual of the finals.
