Crimean President Yuri Meshkov offered late  Thursday to send an official delegation to Kiev to defuse a political crisis  sparked earlier in the day after Ukraine said it was taking over the  peninsula's police forces.
Meshkov told the ITAR-TASS agency here that he was willing to send a team  of deputies from the autonomous Ukrainian republic to discuss "questions of  interest to both parties", and called for intervention from Russia to  safeguard Crimea's status.
Crimean officials earlier charged that the takeover order amounted to a  military coup against the leadership of the Russian-speaking region.
It came as Crimean lawmakers prepared to reinstate Friday an amendment to  the republic's May 1992 constitution, which has never become effective due to  pressure by Kiev, stipulating that relations between central government and  Crimea were to be governed by treaties.
Such a decision is viewed by Kiev as tantamount to a declaration of  independence.
Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk warned that he could order the use of  force against Crimea if the regional parliament adopted the amendment.
"If the Crimean authorities violate the Ukrainian constitution, we have  enough power to force respect," he said during an election campaign meeting  with Kiev journalists.
Meshkov, who gave no indication of when his delegation might leave for  Kiev, said he was prepared to compromise provided Crimea was not made to "pay  the price", adding that he had "sufficient forces and means to avoid losing  control 0of the situation".
Calling for intervention from Moscow he added: "In the current situation  Russia must not allow Ukraine to take inappropriate steps against the republic  of Crimea."
Earlier Thursday Valery Kuznetsov, Crimea's acting interior minister, told  a session of the Crimean parliament that Ukrainian Deputy Interior Minister  Valentin Nedrigailo had presented him with a decree signed by Kravchuk and  ordering the takeover.
"A military coup d'etat is underway", Kuznetstov said after the Kiev  official arrived with a group of 15 elite troops from the Ukrainian interior  ministry.
Russia's Interfax news agency quoted the Ukrainian interior ministry as  confirming Kravchuk's order.
The decree reportedly appointed new officials to the posts of Crimean  security chief and head of interior forces.
The Crimean parliament reacted by voting to confirm Kuznetsov as Crimean  interior minister and appointing its own candidate as security minister.
The ITAR-TASS news agency quoted sources from the Black Sea fleet, based  in the Crimean port of Sevastopol, as saying that 1,000 elite troops and  members of the national guard had arrived overnight in two airfields near the  city.
But the Ukrainian defence ministry categorically denied the report.
Ukrainian security services said about 15 troops arrived overnight at the  military airport in Belbek, near Sevastopol, and that they were simply  accompanying Nedrigailo on his trip.
The heightened tensions between Kiev and Crimea come ahead of presidential  elections in Ukraine, scheduled for June 26, which Kravchuk is expected to  lose and wants to postpone.
Kravchuk's spokesman Viktor Stelmakh meanwhile said the Ukrainian  president spoke with Russian President Boris Yeltsin by phone about the  crisis, saying that "Ukraine would take measures that are in line with the  constitution to maintain its territorial integrity."
The peninsula was part of Russia until former Soviet leader Nikita  Krushchev handed over the territory to Ukraine in 1954.
The region has stepped up its drive for reunification with Russia since  Meshkov, a Russian nationalist, was elected in January.
About two-thirds of the population of Crimea are Russian speakers.
