South Africa's weapons industry is expecting a  major boost from the lifting of the UN arms embargo, the state armaments  corporation said Thursday.
"One of the most exciting aspects of the lifting of the arms boycott, is  the prospect of substantially increasing the exports of defence equipment,"  said Tielman de Waal, general manager of the state-owned Armscor.
The repeal of the embargo was also welcomed by newly-installed defence  minister Joe Modise, who said that while selling arms raised moral and  political questions, it could also contribute to rebuilding the country.
"Should South Africa's present 0.4 percent share in the world armaments  market be increased to only one percent, this will result in 20,000 new job  opportunities," Modise said in a statement from Cape Town.
The UN Security Council voted on Wednesday to overturn the resolutions  prohibiting the sale of weapons to South Africa and the purchase of weapons  from South Africa.
Resolution 418 of 1977 was a mandatory prohibition on sales to South  Africa, while Resolution 558 of 1984 was a voluntary ban on purchasing weapons.
The arms embargo led South Africa to develop a domestic weapons industry,  the products of which received their battle colours during the white-minority  government's bush war against Namibian guerrillas and in interventions in  Angola in support of rebel leader Jonas Savimbi.
De Waal said that even during the years of the U.N. arms embargo, South  Africa's arms exports had climbed to "more than 800 million rand (216 million  dollars) per annum."
He told a media briefing that it was hoped that this figure would climb to  more than one billion rand (273 million dollars) before the end of 1994.
De Waal said Armscor would concentrate on niche marketing and he named  four areas where he felt South Africa's weapons were "battle-proven" world  leaders:
-- artillery, particularily the G5 and self-propelled G6 155 millimetre  canons,
-- the Rooikat (Caracal) armoured fighting vehicle
-- the Rooivalk (Red Falcon) combat helicopter
-- mine-resistant vehicles and mine-clearing equipment.
De Waal said Armscor would market "mainly in the Far East and Middle East,  but South Africa also has the opportunity to go into Europe."
"We think that our products can compete with the Europeans," he said.
The Rooivalk attack helicopter was recently exhibited in Britain, where it  is competing against other international weapons manufacturers for a Royal Air  Force contract.
De Waal echoed President Nelson Mandela's comments that South Africa would  not market irresponsibly, and would only sell arms to countries that were  threatened by outside forces.
He also confirmed that South Africa had sold 100 million rand's (27.3  million dollars') worth of weapons to Rwanda, but said sales to the  blood-soaked central African nation had stopped last October, ahead of the  outbreak of mass killings.
De Waal said the lifting of the ban on sales to South Africa would assist  in procuring weapons that had not previously been available.
He confirmed that four European countries had been asked to tender for the  building of four corvettes for the navy.
De Waal also appealed to the new government not to cut defence's capital  budget, saying such an action would be "catastrophic" to chances of claiming a  larger slice of the 40 billion dollar a year arms export industry.
