British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd assured his  Ukrainian counterpart Anatoly Zlenko on Tuesday that the crisis sparked by  Crimea's steps towards secession would be settled without outside interference.
"I think the Crimea problem is essentially one for settlement within  Ukraine, there is no question", Hurd told journalists following talks here  with Zlenko.
Hurd said that the United Nations and the Conference on Security and  Cooperation in Europe "could be useful" in providing assistance based on  principles of respect for Ukraine's sovereignty and current borders.
He added that "possibilities were being explored" at the UN and with  leaders of the CSCE to provide support but stressed that any action would have  to be in accordance with Kiev.
"We believe in the integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine within its  existing borders," Hurd stated, adding that the Russian leadership shared his  view.
"I spoke this morning with premier (Viktor) Chernomyrdin and president  (Boris) Yeltsin and that is also their view that this is a matter for Ukraine  to settle within the boundaries of Ukraine and without the use of force," he  said.
The Kremlin stated in a statement released following the meeting between  Yeltsin and Hurd that the crisis in Crimea "must be settled between Kiev and  Simferopol through talks, in accordance with the principles of the CSCE and  without the use of force."
Hurd's comments came as a delegation from the Crimean parliament held  talks with their Ukrainian parliament to defuse the crisis sparked by Crimea's  decision to restore a 1992 constitution which grants it greater autonomy from  Kiev.
The Ukrainian parliament has given Crimea up until Monday to reverse its  decision which it views as "illegal" and tantamount to a declaration of  independence.
In Moscow meanwhile, Chernomyrdin held talks with his Ukrainian  counterpart Efim Zviagilsky on dividing up the Black Sea fleet, which has its  home base in the Crimean city of Sevastopol.
Zviagilsky commented that quickly implementing a previous agreement on  carving up the powerful armada would contribute towards stabilising the  situation in the Crimea, ITAR-TASS reported.
Ukraine moved about 25 armored personnel carriers in the main city of  Simferopol over the weekend and there have been unconfirmed reports of troop  movements from Kiev to the secessionist republic.
