Indian Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao left  Saturday on a week-long trip to the United States, where he is expected to  hold talks on the thorny nuclear issue, officials said.
The 73-year-old premier left by a special Air India plane from a military  airbase on the capital's outskirts, accompanied by a high-level delegation  that includes Finance Minister Manmohan Singh.
It is the first visit to the US by an Indian premier since Rajiv Gandhi  went to Washington in October 1987, and the most controversial of foreign  trips by Rao since he took office in June 1991.
Indian officials say New Delhi's ambitious nuclear and missile programmes  will top Rao's agenda in his meetings with President Bill Clinton and other US  officials.
Opposition leaders had pressed Rao to call off the visit to denounce what  they alleged was US arm-twisting over nuclear non-proliferation, Kashmir,  human rights and trade.
At the root of Indo-US differences is the refusal by New Delhi, which  exploded a nuclear device in 1974, to sign the Nuclear Non-Proliferation  Treaty or agree to a pact on a nuclear-free South Asia.
The Press Trust of India news agency reported Saturday that Rao "was  expected to tell the US ... that it will not accept Washington's plans for a  multilateral meet on nuclear non-proliferation in South Asia."
The US administration, which fears that South Asia is a potential nuclear  flashpoint, also wants New Delhi not to induct an indigenous  surface-to-surface Prithvi missile in the army and halt research on the  intermediate-range Agni ballistic missile.
A US proposal to supply 38 F-16 planes to Pakistan, with which India has  fought three wars and which it accuses of backing Moslem separatism in  Kashmir, has also angered New Delhi.
Indian officials said Rao, who launched a radical programme of economic  liberalisation in July 1991 ending four decades of quasi-socialism, will  invite increased US investment in India.
Rao arrives in New York Sunday for meetings with the large Indian  community there and then goes to Houston for talks with US business leaders.  On Tuesday, he will fly to Boston, where he will give a lecture at Harvard.
His two-day stay in Washington Wednesday and Thursday includes a speech to  a joint session of Congress, and a two-and-a-half-hour session with Clinton.  The two are scheduled to hold a joint press conference Thursday.
Rao is also to have talks with Defence Secretary William Perry, Commerce  Secretary Ron Brown and Secretary of State Warren Christopher.
