Kigali's guns fell silent Monday as Rwanda's army  and rebels stopped firing to allow a visiting UN envoy to pave the way for the  deployment of thousands of peacekeepers to stem ethnic carnage, a UN spokesman  said.
As special envoy Iqbal Riza held talks with the rebels, the truce brought  calm to Rwanda's blood-drenched capital after a night of heavy shelling and  the capture of Kigali airport and a key army barracks by the rebels Sunday.
Riza arrived in the northern rebel stronghold of Mulindi from Uganda on  Monday morning and held talks with military and political leaders of the  Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF), UN spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
The rebels were expected to give Riza their answer to a UN request to take  control of the airport, a vital lifeline for landlocked Rwanda, and establish  a neutral zone there to land the peacekeepers and desperately needed food and  medicine.
"The truce is largely holding," Kabia said. "There was an exchange of fire  about an hour after the truce came into effect at nine a.m. (0700 GMT), and  there have been sporadic small arms clashes, but it's much less than usual and  for us the truce is being respected."
Kabia said both sides had pledged to observe a two-day truce to allow Riza  to open talks with rebels and the government on plans to deploy 5,500 UN  troops to staunch the six-week-old bloodbath in which up to half a million  people have been butchered.
The rebels, however, said they had not agreed to a full truce, but had  agreed to hold fire wherever possible to allow Riza to travel safely.
Fighting has prevented relief planes from landing in Kigali for four days.  A flight was again cancelled Monday despite the truce because of fears that  aircraft could come under fire from government forces, UN military sources  said.
Riza was expected to reach the capital Kigali by road later Monday for  discussions with army commanders.
He planned to visit the rump government Tuesday in Gitarama, 40 kilometres  (25 miles) to the southwest, Kabia said.
RPF fighters are steadily advancing towards Gitarama, where the government  fled last month as carnage engulfed the capital and rebel fighters dislodged  army soldiers from key positions, UN military sources said.
The capture of Kanombe barracks, Kigali's most heavily fortified army  position, was the RPF's biggest victory in six weeks of fighting since the  April 6 death of president Juvenal Habyarimana threw Rwanda into turmoil, the  sources said.
"The RPF are now concentrating on flushing out the presidential guard from  Kigali, and it looks as if the army may be forced to retreat from the capital  within a week if the RPF manages to take Camp Kigali (another big army base),"  a senior UN military source told AFP.
RPF secretary-general Theogene Rudasingwa meanwhile warned, "There is no  truce," and stressed that the United Nations' role "has to be strictly  humanitarian."
"We are still pursuing our offensive in Kigali and in the rest of the  country," he told a press conference in Nairobi. "What the UN wants is  unrestricted access to the airport so that in conduct its humanitarian  operations...
"We are saying 'Yes'."
Rudasingwa said that rebel guerrillas would "hold fire as much as  possible" to allow Riza to travel safely. He said reports by UN officials that  both sides had agreed to a 48-hour truce were "exaggerated."
Extremist Hutu militias have been blamed for much of the killing in  Rwanda, where the victims have mostly been members of the minority Tutsi tribe  that dominates the RPF, and Hutu opposition supporters.
The Security Council authorised the deployment of 5,500 blue helmets after  the United Nations came under heavy criticism for withdrawing all but 400 of  its 2,500 ceasefire monitors last month.
They will not intervene in fighting between rebel and government forces,  but will try to end the killings of civilians and will escort relief convoys  to some two million displaced people.
