Armenia and Azerbaijan agreed Monday to a ceasefire  in Nagorno-Karabakh, signing a preliminary accord here paving the way for an  end to a six-year war over the disputed enclave, the Interfax agency said.
The warring parties' defence ministers, meeting under Russian mediation  together with the enclave's separatist Armenian authorities, agreed to a total  ceasefire to come into effect at 0000 hours Tuesday (2000 GMT Monday), the  agency said.
The parties also signed a preliminary accord for the positioning inside  the conflict zone as of May 24 of 49 observer posts to be manned by Russian,  Armenian, Azeri and other Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) troops and  commanded by Russians.
The accord, which came amid reports of continued fighting in the enclave,  would be formalised Tuesday in a definitive document, the agency said.
It also provided for the subsequent deployment in the enclave of a  1,800-strong peacekeeping force of CIS soldiers.
The peacekeepers will be tasked with ensuring the withdrawal of the  warring parties "into a zone between five and ten kilometres (three and six  miles) from the front lines," the accord stated.
Russia, backed by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe  (CSCE), has been trying since February to get Armenia and Azerbaijan to accept  such a package.
Accord signatories were Armenian Defence Minister Sergei Sarkissyan, and  his Azeri, Nagorno-Karabakh and Russian counterparts Mamedrafi Mamedov, Samvel  Babayan and Pavel Grachev.
Russian President Boris Yeltsin's special envoy Vladimir Kazimirov told  Interfax the accord was to be implemented in three stages.
An end to fighting would be followed by a withdrawal of troops from  occupied areas and exchanges of war prisoners and hostages prior to a return  to normal economic activity, he said.
He added that the final stage would be the launch of negotiations to  decide on the future constitutional status of Nagorno-Karabakh, which is  inside Azerbaijan but controlled by ethnic Armenians.
Armenian separatist authorities there unilaterally declared the enclave an  independent republic at the end of 1991.
But enthusiasm over the accord was dampened by reports from separatist  authorities, quoted by the ITAR-TASS agency as saying Azeri forces had shelled  Armenian positions in the Mardakert and Agdam regions in the north and east of  the enclave Sunday night.
And earlier Monday Azeri opposition deputies said they strongly opposed  any compromise agreement with the Armenians. Members of 15 opposition parties  signed a declaration to that effect published by the Azeri news agency Turan.
The declaration described as "shameful" a protocol reached earlier this  month in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, where Moscow sources said Baku had for the first  time accepted that separatist authorities should participate in negotiations  on the enclave's future.
The opposition parties denounced a statement by parliamentary speaker  Rassul Guliev, who said Saturday it was "imperative" an accord was reached to  end the conflict. Such a statement "betrayed Azerbaijan's interests,"  signatories to the declaration said.
Azeri President Gaidar Aliyev had predicted Sunday that "a very important  stage in the resolution of the conflict" was about to begin.
More than 20,000 people have been killed in six years of ethnic bloodshed  over Nagorno-Karabakh, while hundreds of thousands of people have been forced  to flee their homes in and around the enclave since February 1988.
