Rebels tightened the noose around Rwanda's rump  government as the United Nations struggled to persuade member states to send  troops to end a bloodbath that has killed half a million people, UN sources  said Wednesday.
Guerrillas of the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) have cut the road  between the capital Kigali and Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25 miles) to the  southwest, where the government fled as carnage engulfed the central African  country last month, UN military sources said.
A UN spokesman in Brussels, James Rwego, warned that Kigali's airport  remained a military target for the RPF and could therefore not be used to fly  in UN forces.
He said there were ongoing military clashes for control of the airport and  its surroundings and that there was no question of considering it a neutral  zone.
Another UN spokesman in Nairobi, Abdul Kabia said the rebels, who now  control two-thirds of Rwanda, were advancing towards Gitarama, where the army  was believed to be moving in reinforcements.
Reports from the town indicated that members of the minority Tutsi tribe  that dominates the rebel movement were being butchered by majority Hutus.
"Killings always precede an RPF advance," a relief official said in  Nairobi.
Sporadic mortar blasts rocked Kigali on Wednesday but the capital was  "relatively quiet" and the rebels seemed to have turned their attention to  Gitarama, Kabia said
UN officials meanwhile shuttled between rebel and army commanders in their  latest bid to win agreement for the world body to take control of Kigali  airport, where fighting has repeatedly prevented relief flights from landing,  Kabia said.
The UN, shaken by its failure to end factional fighting in Somalia, where  more than 80 peacekeepers have been killed, is having trouble convincing  member-states to contribute troops to the 5,500-strong force which the  Security Council this week voted to send in, UN sources said in Nairobi.
The decision followed a storm of criticism of the UN's withdrawal of  almost all but 400 of its 2,600 ceasefire monitors from Rwanda last month.
