Latvian Foreign Minister Georgs Andrejevs has  admitted in an open letter to a newspaper that he collaborated with the KGB,  but lambasted an "absurd" campaign of accusations against him and other Baltic  politicians, reports said Sunday.
Andrejevs, foreign minister since November 1992, is one of five Latvian  MPs whose mandate was suspended a month ago after an investigative commission  announced it had found their names in a KGB file.
Before the Baltic state's June 1993 general election, all candidates had  to certify they had never worked for any intelligence services of any kind.
Andrejevs, who says he will not resign, replied in detail to the  accusations against him by writing his letter which appeared in Saturday's  Diena newspaper and was addressed to "voters, friends and deputies."
"You have to be personally implicated in the tumult whipped up by the KGB  collaboration (issue) to understand the absurdity" of the accusations,  Andrejevs, wrote. Since the allegations against him were revealed he has been  on official leave.
Many Baltic politicians fear implication in KGB files, many of which are  in Russia, even though the Baltic nations have demanded their transferral.
Latvian President Guntis Ulmanis has already denied allegations published  in the Russo-Palestinian weekly Al-Qods, which stated he was once a KGB secret  agent codenamed Hugo.
Two Lithuanian deputies, including former premier Kazimiera Prunskiene,   have suffered similar accusations. In Estonia, the father of President Lennart  Meri is being posthumously investigated for alleged collaboration.
In his three-page letter, Andrejevs presented a detailed picture of his  career, portraying himself as a victim of Soviet rule.
Born in 1932 of a Russian father and a Latvian mother, he and his his  mother tried to flee the advancing Red Army in 1945 but only reached  Czechoslovakia, which itself fell under Soviet domination. They decided to  return to Latvia.
Andrejevs wrote he then took up medical studies, but was excluded from the  Komsomol communist youth movement for malpractice in 1957 and expelled from  the faculty. But a year later he was allowed to resume his studies, under the  apparent protection of the head of the faculty.
In 1962, he became his country's chief anaesthetist and began teaching at  the faculty of medicine. The KGB then invited him to provide "ample and  confidential information on any event which could influence the stability" of  the communist-run establishment.
"I was not asked to provide information on my contemporaries or friends,"  Andrejevs wrote, without giving details on the exact nature of the information  he passed on.
After 1968, he was allowed to travel abroad to attend anaesthetist  congresses as long as he provided four copies of detailed reports when he  returned, one of them to the KGB.
Having been refused the chance to study at Harvard, he joined the  Communist Party in 1972 and then attended conferences in Japan, Mexico and  Canada.
Andrejevs called on parliament either to end his mandate if it saw fit or  restore it and show it had confidence in him as foreign minister.
