Washington launched a diplomatic push to defuse  a potential nuclear crisis on the Korean peninsula Monday, beginning a week of  intensive talks with officials from several Asian states.
South Korea's special envoy for nuclear issues Kim Sam-Hoon met Monday  with US assistant secretary of state Robert Gallucci to discuss plans for  resuming high-level talks with North Korea.
The two are to meet Tuesday with Japanese foreign ministry officials at  the United Nations in New York, where US diplomats were already holding  discussions with their North Korean counterparts.
Washington suspended high-level talks with North Korea in July after  Pyongyang barred the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) from inspecting  all its nuclear facilities.
The March 31 date for resuming the talks was put off again when inspectors  were denied access to facilities at the Yongbyon plant outside Pyongyang. The  United States believes North Korea already has developed at least one nuclear  bomb.
Pyongyang has denied it is producing nuclear arms, but continues to deny  international inspection teams full access to its facilities and threatened a  year ago to pull out of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty altogether.
The US administration is hoping that prospects for resuming the talks --  which North Korea has insisted on -- and the hint of diplomatic recognition  from the United States and its Asian partners will push Pyongyang to disclose  more details on its nuclear program.
Officials are also working on a coordinated effort with South Korea and  Japan which, though they share US interest in keeping the peninsula free of  nuclear weapons, have cautioned that too much pressure might trigger a  conflict.
In fact, State Department spokesman Michael McCurry said no date for the  new round of talks would be set until after "a full range of consultations"  with Japan, China and South Korea.
Nor would they be resumed, he added, until there is full verification that  no plutonium from the reactors North Korea began refueling two weeks ago was  being used for nuclear weapons.
"Once the AIEA (is able to) maintain safeguards on spent fuel we'll see no  obstacle to a third round of high level talks," he said.
IAEA inspectors are to arrive in Pyongyang Tuesday to begin talks on  monitoring the removal of the fuel rods.
The administration decided to resume the high-level talks with Pyongyang  Friday, when Defense Secretary William Perry announced that the fuel was not  being used for producing weapons-grade plutonium.
Sunday, Vice President Al Gore said there had been some progress with North  Korea and that the process was worth pursuing.
But Washington is also willing to pull out the stick if the carrot fails.
"If discharge of fuel from the reactor continues without any of the IAEA's  proposed steps in place, then North Korea would inevitably undermine the basis  for our dialogue and we'd have no choice but to return the matter to the  United Nations Security Council," McCurry said.
