Michael Doohan, who has cheated death so  many times in high-speed spills which almost crippled him, took a decisive  step toward the world motorcycle championship here on Sunday.
The Australian increased his championship lead by outclassing the 500cc  field for a third win in five races this season.
Reigning champion Kevin Schwantz of the United States, who had won three  out of five times here, was a well-beaten second with Doohan's Honda team-mate  Alex Criville of Spain third.
Doohan, who led from the first lap, finished 12 seconds clear at the  chequered flag.
The Australian, who also won in Malaysia and Spain, was on 111 points in  the championship. Schwantz was on 88 and John Kocinski, the Australian GP  winner who was fifth today on his Cagiva, was third on 79 points.
Shinishi Itoh of Japan, riding a Honda, was fourth in today's race and  fourth in the championship on 56 points.
But Doohan, whose leg needed rebuilding after he crashed in the Dutch GP  when leading the 1992 championship by a massive 53 points, refused to think  about the title.
"One race at a time. There's a long, long way to go yet," he said.
Schwantz, second fastest in practice, never caught up after after a poor  start and an exciting battle with Criville.
"I just got a bad start," the Texan said. "I rode as hard as I could the  entire race but never got near."
Doohan agreed the start had been decisive.
"I knew I'd have to break away at the beginning otherwise Kevin would have  hung in my draught. But it wasn't an easy race," he said.
Bike speed had been important on the sweeping Salzburgring circuit.
"We had some speed on those guys," Doohan admitted. "I conbratulate my  team for giving me such a great bike."
He now goes to Germany for a race next weekend on another fast track at  Hockenheim which should give him another advantage on his rivals.
Loris Capirossi, riding a Honda, shook off fellow Italian Massimiliano  Biaggi, on an Aprilia, on the last lap to win the 250cc race.
Biaggi, winner of the Australian and Malaysian Grands Prix, had lost the  lead six laps from the finish but fought his way back in front on the last lap  before Capirossi attacked again.
Biaggi braked too hard on the last big curve and Capirossi was able to  slip inside and hang on to win by half a second.
Doriano Romboni of Italy, on a Honda, won the three-man race for third  place.
Tadayuki Okada of Japan, on a Yamaha, finished fourth to maintain his world  championship lead on 85 points.
Capirossi's first win this season took him to third in the championship on  77 points behind Biaggi on 83.
"I braked too hard and I slid and then the bike jumped once or twice so I  couldn't hold him off. I'm very unhappy after doing all the work," said Biaggi.
"It was a very difficult race. I took my chances," said Capirossi who put  in the fastest lap of the race at an average 117mph (188kmh) six laps from the  finish to set up the exciting finish.
rw94
