He noted the "unusual" breadth of the Geneva meeting -- participants also  included British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd, German Foreign Minister Klaus  Kinkel and their Russian counterpart Andrei Kozyrev, as well as the Belgian  and Greek ministers and European Commissioner Hans van den Broek.
Christopher said they would meet again if and when necessary, but  stressed:  "We don't want to impose a settlement but to facilitate a  settlement, to provide the best environment. It's up to the parties themselves  to reach an agreement."
The secretary of state said the dangers of the situation and the continued  suffering of the people of Bosnia-Hercegovina had made Friday's meeting  necessary.
Juppe said it was the first time that Russia, the United States and the  European states had agreed upon a concrete course rather than vague terms.
Hurd also expressed satisfaction at the unity they had shown, after  reports of differences between the US, Europe and Russia over Bosnia which had  hindered peace efforts.
Asked about the situation if the Serbs refused to negotiate within two  weeks, Christopher said: "We think they must recognise that the world needs a  negotiated settlement." But this was a hypthothetical question and they would  "just have to watch things unfold."
Juppe said the plan would "either work or not work. Allow me to opt this  evening for the hypothesis that it will work".
Regarding the threat to withdraw France's 6,000 men from Bosnia rather  than their weather another winter there without prospects of peace, he said  that if the plan did not work "we will have to meet again and perhaps change  our thinking."
The French minister said his government was "not in the process of  preparing (a withdrawal), but this is a risk that we are considering."
A senior US official said after the press conference there was "nothing  concrete at this point" to indicate there would be a positive Serb response,  but said the stand taken in Geneva with the prospect of lifting of sanctions  "should be seen as an incentive."
"Some preliminary reports do at least have some indications that they (the  Serbs) may have changed their view on lifting the sanctions as a precondition  (for negotiation). We hope this is an opportunity the Serbs will seize," the  official said.
"We hope the Serbs will take note that the sanctions will continue to be  enforced and that the way to have them lifted is to negotiate."
