Haitians braced for tighter UN sanctions  set to take effect at midnight Saturday designed to press their country's  military rulers to step down.
The international diplomatic effort was drawing bitter complaints that the  near-total trade embargo only would hurt the destitute in the Americas'  poorest country.
The trade embargo was to take effect after midnight Saturday, or 0400 GMT  Sunday, unless Haiti's military rulers resign to allow the reinstatement of  democratically elected president Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
The embargo, which excludes food and medical products, would be as tough  as those in effect against Iraq and the former Yugoslavia.
Haiti has been under a fuel and arms embargo since October.
UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali told the Security Council early  Friday there was no sign the military would comply with UN demands.
"I regret to inform the Council that there has been no change in the  attitude of the Haitian military." Boutros-Ghali said in a statement.
The May 6 resolution set a 15-day deadline in hopes of breaking the  deadlock on the political crisis caused by the military ouster of Aristide in  September 1991.
But instead the military tightened its grip on the country when army chief  General Raoul Cedras backed the May 11 installation of 81-year-old Emile  Jonaissant as interim president -- a move condemned by the international  community.
Enforcing the embargo is expected to be problematic, given the booming  business smugglers are doing across the Haitian-Dominican border.
Many people here believe wealthy residents and military leaders will  continue to get by on fuel smuggled from the neighboring Dominican Republic  and their supplies stockpiled over the last few months.
One business leader said the country's oil reserves had been recently  replenished with fuel smuggled in from abroad despite the UN oil and arms  embargo already on Port-au-Prince.
Other Haitians worried that they would be unable to buy kerosene for oil  lamps, often the only source of light in some shantytowns.
Washington wants to guard the border using international monitors inside  the Dominican Republic, but Dominican President Joaquin Balaguer, leading in  the vote count from last Monday's presidential election, opposes the idea.
In the face of continued stubborness of the Haitian regime, US President  Bill Clinton has not ruled out using force to restore democracy despite the  fact there is little support from the US public for such a move.
Thursday, Clinton listed five specific reasons that would justify possible  US military intervention.
Among his concerns were the possibility of a massive Haitian refugee wave  flooding the United States, drug trafficking in Haiti, and US economic  interests.
A confidential US Justice Department memo says Haiti's military leaders  have been under investigation for drug trafficking since the early 1980s.  Named in the memo was Lieutenant Colonel Michel Francois, head of the police  in Port-au-Prince and a key figure among the military leadership.
Honduran Foreign Minister Ernesto Paz Aguilar Saturday said his country  was willing to send troops for a multinational force to restore Aristide to  power.
Friday, the White House said the UN High Commissioner on Refugees agreed  to help the United States in implementing a new policy that allows for a  hearing to Haitian refugees seeking political asylum.
A statement issued by staff traveling with President Bill Clinton in Los  Angeles said the UN office would help train US personnel, monitor the process  and assist in finding a third country for interviews of Haitians who flee  their impoverished homeland.
Clinton announced earlier this month that the United States would stop  immediate repatriation of Haitians intercepted at sea and provide a hearing at  sea or in a third country to determine which qualify for political asylum.
