A political crisis between Ukraine and breakaway  Crimea eased Tuesday, a Ukrainian official said, as the countries'  legislatures reportedly agreed to suspend inflammatory resolutions that  triggered the dispute.
Boris Oleynik, the head of the Ukrainian delegation to bilateral talks  here, said both sides had agreed to "refrain from any new measures" which  might aggravate the situation.
The day-long talks were led by Crimea's parliamentary speaker Sergei  Tsekov and his Ukrainian counterpart Alexander Moroz.
A deputy from Crimea told the Interfax news agency that under the  agreement Crimean deputies pledged not to act on a resolution passed Friday to  implement a 1992 constitution granting the region greater autonomy from Kiev.
That resolution had been seen by Kiev officials as tantamount to a  declaration of independence by the predominantly Russian-populated territory  on the Black Sea.
The Ukrainian parliament, meanwhile, agreed to hold fire on its own  resolution Friday declaring the Crimean move illegal and giving the local  legislature until Monday to reverse its decision, the deputy added.
The delegations also agreed to form a bilateral commission to resolve  outstanding differences, officials said.
The talks were earlier billed as focusing on Crimean demands for a  separate citizenship and for integration in the Russian ruble zone.
Tension has remained high in the main Crimean city of Simferopol after  Ukraine moved about 25 armored personnel carriers into the region over the  weekend.
Earlier Tuesday Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk accused Russian  President Boris Yeltsin of violating international law by intervening in the  crisis.
"The Russian president may warn his own institutions but not the president  of another state," Kravchuk told a group of World War II veterans.
Yeltsin last Friday called on Ukraine not to use force in responding to  the Crimean parliament's decision, adding that neither Ukraine nor Russia  should intervene in Crimea.
Kravchuk stressed that the Crimean issue must not become a source of  discord between Ukraine and Russia.
He said that as long as Crimean leaders did not recognize that the  republic was "an integral part of Ukraine" there was no room for compromise.
Crimea -- a republic of 2.5 million residents, around two-thirds of whom  are ethnic Russians -- has been moving towards closer ties with Moscow since  the January election of Russian nationalist Yuri Meshkov to the presidency.
The Crimean peninsula was part of Russia until then-Soviet leader Nikita  Khrushchev handed over the territory to Ukraine in 1954 as a "gift"  celebrating the friendship between the two Slav peoples.
In a related development in Moscow, Russia and Ukraine began Tuesday a  second day of talks on dividing up the Black Sea fleet, which has its home  base in the Crimean city of Sevastopol.
Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin sat down with his Ukrainian  counterpart Efrim Zviagilsky to speed up division of the fleet.
"The successful settlement of the issue of dividing up the Black Sea fleet  will stabilise the whole situation in Crimea," Zviagilsky was quoted by  ITAR-TASS as saying.
Ukrainian officials said there was no discussion between the two men on  the situation in Crimea.
Crimean Prime Minister Yevgeny Saburov joined the second day of the talks  called after Yeltsin and Kravchuk agreed to divide up the fleet and set up  separate bases at a meeting in Moscow last month.
Britain, Germany and the United States have backed Ukraine in its row with  the secessionist republic and have reiterated that Crimea remains an integral  part of Ukraine.
