Gulf Arab states have ignored  Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh and voiced support for a UN initiative to  halt the north-south civil war in Yemen.
The UN Security Council was set Tuesday to debate efforts to secure a  ceasefire, in spite of Saleh who has insisted since the war erupted on May 5  that it was an internal matter and opposed outside interference.
The only ceasefire terms the north has so far offered to its southern  rivals, led by Ali Salem al-Baid who declared the independent Yemen Democratic  Republic (YDR) on May 21, is to surrender and merge forces.
Saleh argues he is faced with a "southern rebellion" that he has to quash  by military means. But with the Security Council meeting going ahead  regardless, he sent two envoys to New York on Monday.
After the declaration of independence, Sanaa warned it could break off  ties with any country recognising the YDR and has warned that outside help for  Baid would be seen as aggression against Yemen.
But Gulf countries, increasingly concerned by the conflict now in its  fourth week, have stepped up efforts for an unconditional ceasefire to bring  the two sides to the negotiating table.
Yemen's closest neighbours, Oman and Saudi Arabia, have spearheaded  appeals to the Security Council, with an initiative largely backed by other  Arab countries including the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Egypt.
Qatar also urged the United Nations to hold a special session on the war.
The moves have been welcomed by the south and its appointed premier Haidar  Abu Bakr al-Attas has said a Security Council resolution "will be binding on  all parties and we are ready to stick to it."
But Sanaa fears that outside intervention could sow the seeds for the  future recognition of the south, especially if the United Nations does not  insist on the unity of Yemen.
The country was formed in May 1990 by conservative North Yemen and the  former Marxist South Yemen.
Northern officials charge that Saudi Arabia helped stir up trouble because  it does not want to live alongside a strong state of 14 million people that  has committed itself to democracy and won plaudits from the West.
But southern leaders have argued that unity was a failure, as shown by the  war. Gulf Arab states, unhappy with Sanaa's backing for Baghdad during the  1991 war for Kuwait, appear to be swinging in favour of the argument.
"Let's end this manufactured unity," the Kuwatiti daily Al-Qabas said,  calling on the Arab world to recognise the YDR and "refuse to maintain  (Yemen's unity) by arms."
Since the beginning of the war Kuwait has only received southern leaders,  refusing to forgive Saleh's pro-Iraqi stance during the Gulf crisis.
Yet to date none of the Gulf countries has gone so far as to openly  recognise the breakaway state. Only the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has come  close, referring to Baid as president.
In the 10 days since the YDR was declared, Attas has embarked on a tour of  Arab countries to try to drum up support.
He arrived in Kuwait on Sunday after visiting Egypt, Syria, Saudi Arabia,  Oman and the UAE saying he "found a very positive attitude  ... on the issue  of recognizing the YDR as well as the need for a rapid halt to hostilities."
"A majority of Arab countries, except Qatar, Jordan and Iraq, are going to  recognize the YDR," he predicted.
