Britain presented its bid for the Golden  Palm here Monday, as the half-way point in the 47th Internatonal Film Festival  loomed with no clear favourite in sight.
On the fourth full day of the world's biggest filmfest, Poland's Krzysztof  Kieslowski also presented "Red," the third part of his "Colours" trilogy which  is also vying for the top prize.
The British movie, by director Mike Figgis, tells an archetypally English  story of restrained emotions and dormitory mischief set in a minor public  school.
Starring Albert Finney and Greta Scacchi, "The Browning Version" provoked  immediate comparisons with such sure-fire English hits as Merchant-Ivory's  "Remains of the Day" or Robin Williams' "Dead Poet's Society."
For some the comparisons were too much. "Well made, but unoriginal" was a  comment made by more than one critic emerging from a press preview screening  of the film.
Figgis was quick to defend his work, his first time in the main  competition on the Croisette.
"I was aware of how easy it was to fall into the trap ... of just  presenting a safe picture ... which has become such an accepted cliche of  British filmmaking," he said in an interview with AFP.
But he said: "To me that was far more of a challenge, when you are up  against Merchant-Ivory and a certain perceived world image of England .. to  take a cliche .... and turn it on its head."
Finney plays Andrew Crocker-Harris, a classics master being forced to  resign from the school after 18 years -- ostensibly due to ill-health,  actually because of unpopularity.
His wife Laura (Scacchi) is having an affair with the school's American  science teacher -- provoking Finney's emotional crisis which is at the heart  of the film.
At least one critic at the preview ahead of Monday night's premiere was  impressed with the film, and in particular with Finney's performance.  "Outstanding," said one "I had tears in my eyes."
Figgis, who first came to Cannes in 1988 with "Stormy Monday," is bidding  to keep up the British success achieved last year by compatriots Mike Leigh  and Ken Loach, who both took prizes on the Croisette.
Also premiered on the Croisette Monday evening was "Red," the third  fragment of Kieslowski's multi-hued "Colours" trilogy.
Kieslowski, presenting his sequal to "Blue" and "White" in competition  here, insisted that the three films were intended simply as individual stories  rather than a unified whole.
He said he "simply told three stories ... If people find something else in  the three films, it's really a present for me."
The latest offering, starring Irene Jacob, returns to the mood of the  first part of the trilogy, in a strange romantic tale.
Kieslowski, explaining his cinematic philosophy, which produced the  multi-part Decalogue series before "Three Colours," said: "If I make several  films at a time, I can illuminate a wider field.
"Life is not an assemblage of parts, or fragments, for me it is essential  to put more fragments (together) to understand better," he said.
No clear front runner has so far appeared in the main competition of the  festival here, which ends next Monday night.
France has high hopes for Patrice Chereau's "La Reine Margot" starring  Isabelle Adjani, but international reaction has been lukewarm despite strong  support from the French press.
The American press has gone firmly behind Joel Coen's "The Hudsucker  Proxy," which opened the festival last Thursday.
Much speculation is surrounding the Chinese director Zhang Yimou's  "Huozhe" (Live!), starring Gong Li, which gets its premier on the Croisette on  Tuesday.
