Brazil, the favourites to win the 15th World Cup,  are their own biggest opponents in their quest for a fourth trophy, according  to their former star Roberto Rivelino.
Rivelino, who played at the high point of his nation's footballing history  in 1970 when they won their third World Cup, believes a stylish 2-0 friendly  win over Argentina on March 23 this year showed the current side was capable  of reliving those glory days.
Right back Cafu looked fast, Bebeto proved his finishing prowess with both  goals and Rai showed the midfield elegance lacking in matches for his French  club, Paris Saint Germain.
But Rivelino also warned that distractions could scupper the Brazilians'  chances. He honed in on the negative influence of Romario's public outbursts  against his striking rival Muller.
Romario told Parreira he should drop Muller and play Edmundo alongside him  and Bebeto.
Parreira ignored the advice and left Edmundo out of his 22-man squad but  the episode, like the ongoing wrangle about bonuses, will hardly have been  good for team-spirit.
Despite Parreira's problems, he can take comfort from the fact that  Brazil's build-up to 1970 was also less than ideal, coach Joao Saldanha being  sacked only a few months before the tournament.
The form that has seen Brazil installed as favourites in the World Cup  countdown is in marked contrast to the way they stuttered and stumbled through  their qualifying group.
Brazil have competed in all 15 World Cups since 1930, including the 1994  edition, but not until their 2-0 victory over Uruguay in their final qualifier  -- sealed by two late goals by the recalled Romario -- did they book their  ticket to America.
The qualifying campaign had started with a 2-0 defeat in Bolivia that came  close to costing Parreira his job and the coach has been the subject of  relentless criticism ever since.
When Brazil won the return leg 6-0 one paper attacked Parreira for being  too defensive. "You have to be Robocop to do this job," he said.
