When China's first stock markets opened for  business in Shanghai and Shenzhen three years ago or so, it was a case of too  much money chasing too few stocks. Now, it's the other way around.
With interest rates and inflation tracking upwards, turnover on China's  fledgling bourses has been meager at best this year, and Hong Kong analysts  see slim prospects for real recovery in the coming months.
What could woo investors back into the markets, the analysts add, would be  for more high-capitalization, top-quality stocks to be listed -- instead of a  bevy of small companies whose financial health is shrouded in mystery.
"It's a tight time in the market right now in China," said Brian Power,  managing director of China Securities Research Centre Ltd., which publishes an  independent newsletter on China's emerging markets.
"There are a lot of problems in the Chinese economy, and that makes  Chinese investors pretty nervous -- and foreign ones as well," he said.
So-called B-shares -- denominated in US or Hong Kong dollars and intended  for foreign investors, although also widely held by Chinese nationals -- have  lost a third of their value since the start of the year.
On Friday, the Credit Lyonnais China B Index, put out by Credit Lyonnais  Securities (Asia) Ltd., a Hong Kong unit of the French banking group, finished  at 975.99 after drifting sideways for several sessions.
Turnover has been thin -- in Shanghai on Friday, only 3.5 million US  dollars' worth of B-shares changed hands -- as foreign investors look  elsewhere for greener pastures and Chinese turn to treasury bonds paying 12-15  percent and bank accounts yielding 10.8 percent a year.
That's the reverse of how it was in late 1990 when pent-up demand for  stocks spelled overnight success for communist China's first bona-fide stock  market in Shanghai, followed by a second in Shenzhen, abutting Hong Kong, in  July 1991.
Both the B-share and more speculative A-share market, reserved for domestic  investors, have stabilized in recent days, apparently on buying by Chinese  government agencies trying to avert a wholesale crash.
"We've seen some buying, but we don't know by who -- maybe the (central)  People's Bank," said C.Y. Ho, head of China research at Credit Lyonnais  Securities. "Certainly it was not genuine institutional buying."
Longer term, a major stock rally looks unlikely as inflation -- now  running officially at 23.2 percent -- stays high and the government jacks up  interest rates to keep annual growth at no more than nine percent.
"Especially in Shanghai, it appears that B-shares have found strong  support at the current levels" after their recent fall, said Jacky Chiu, head  of China research at Nomura Research Institute (Hong Kong) Ltd.
They might ever perform better later this year, but that presumes there  will be no worsening of the Chinese economy, Chiu said.
Nevertheless, Beijing still counts on foreigners to snap up whatever new  B-share issue it approves -- and there will be at least 50 this year alone,  according to the state-run Xinhua News Agency on Thursday.
Currently there are 28 B-shares lists in Shanghai and 21 in Shenzhen.
"The present B-share market is too small to meet the enterprise demand for  foreign fund supply," Liu Hongru, chairman of the China Securities Regulatory  Commission, told a business gathering in Beijing.
But Hong Kong analysts say China should look more closely at what the  market really wants -- and that's better quality stocks from bigger state-run  companies, like railways and auto plants.
"Beijing should encourage more best-quality, larger market capitalization,  more liquid companies to be listed," Credit Lyonnais' Ho said. "Now they're  doing the opposite... They prefer more companies with a smaller issue size."
"From the Chinese point of view, they need a lot of money for enterprise  reform," Nomura's Chiu added. "But investors are not that optimistic about  Chinese economic development, at least in the short term... You have to  consider the market and whether it can absorb all these new issues."
