US Secretary of State Warren Christopher and  President Hafez al-Assad explored ways to bring Syria and Israel closer to a  Golan peace deal here Sunday.
Christopher held four hours of talks with Assad right after arriving in  Damascus for his second peace shuttle between Syria and Israel in as many  weeks.
"The president heard the proposals that Christopher brought with him and  gave Syria's point of view on the peace process," a presidential spokesman  said, without elaborating.
The secretary, who made no comment after the marathon session, was to hold  further talks here on Monday before leaving for Israel.
"There is a lot of work to do but the two parties are serious and they  have urged us to come back," Christopher told reporters on the plane that  brought him from Geneva.
But the secretary has also played down his latest peace mission, saying he  did not expect a breakthrough.
Christopher was to deliver Israel's response to Assad's counter-proposals,  following an initial Israeli offer of a phased withdrawal from the strategic  Golan Heights.
The secretary did not rule out a return visit to Damascus before Thursday,  when he is set to return to Washington.
Now that it has helped secure the self-rule accord between Israel and the  PLO, the United States is determined to step up efforts to bring Israel and  Syria back to the negotiating table for direct talks.
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has offered to return three of five  Druze villages on the heights as a first stage in a three-step withdrawal over  five to eight years from the plateau which Israel conquered in 1967.
Syria rejected the offer and was also likely to turn down Israeli  proposals that Christopher try to persuade Damascus to set up a joint military  commission with Israel to "draft security arrangements" for the Golan.
Damascus has repeatedly said it would not surrender an inch of the heights  and that a total withdrawal from the plateau must take precedence over  security arrangements.
The government newspaper Tishrin said Syria was willing to discuss an  Israeli withdrawal from the heights on condition Israel pledged a complete  pullout within an "acceptable and reasonable" timeframe.
A Tishrin commentary headlined "Will Israel take the adequate decision?"  went on to say that the ball was in Israel's court "and those who give it  support," in reference to the United States.
But diplomats here and in Beirut have said the exchange of messages  between Syria and Israel was a step in the right direction, although both  sides were far from a breakthrough.
A Western diplomat in Damascus said the counter-proposals submitted to  Israel by Syria "included some very specific questions which opened the way  for a concrete and serious debate."
Christopher also told reporters on his plane that he was to make a  symbolic visit to the first autonomous Palestinian enclave of Jericho on  Tuesday to assess how self-rule was being implemented at first hand.
He will be the first senior foreign dignitary to tour the town since  Israeli forces withdrew on Friday to be replaced by Palestinian police.
