Double chasers Manchester United are praying that  small will not beautiful in Saturday's FA Cup Final.
The English giants' march towards their second successive league title was  twice, if ultimately only temporarily, stopped in its tracks by Chelsea's  economy-sized strike force.
On both occasions, United's normally unflappable centre backs, Steve Bruce  and Gary Pallister, reminded one of those cartoon elephants who are scared  stiff of mice, as they were spun one way and then another by the likes of  Dennis Wise, John Spencer, Mark Stein and most notably, Gavin Peacock.
Peacock and Stein, in particular, will have good reason to approach with  confidence an occasion for which many would rely on bravado.
The former, with his penetrating runs from deep positions, scored both  goals in successive 1-0 victories at Stamford Bridge and Old Trafford.
The latter, who made an unexpected return from injury to score the two  goals that relegated Sheffield United last week, also hit a brace earlier in  the season to give his former club, Stoke City, a 2-1 first-leg victory over  United in the League Cup.
As a pair, they have that chalk and cheese factor that would do justice to  a couple of buddy movie cops: Peacock, the clean-cut Christian with the  college boy looks; Stein, the callow ragamuffin, who has had to take the slow  route to the top, weighed down, according to his first manager David Pleat, by  the hefty chip on his shoulder.
His angry years at Luton, Queens Park Rangers, Oxford United and Stoke now  apparently behind him, the Cape Town born striker afforded a refreshingly  modest response to last week's triumphant comeback.
"I would not say I have guaranteed my final place but I think I have given  the gaffer a decision to make," he said.
With Chelsea's diminutive quartet having a relatively free role to harass  United's back four, heavy responsibility will fall on the anchor position in  midfield.
Romantic as it may be to visualise the Blues' player-manager Glenn Hoddle  strutting the Cup Final stage for the fourth time, at 36 he would not relish  the prospect of an afternoon chasing the deep shadows of United's orchestrator  Eric Cantona.
Much will be expected then of arguably Hoddle's brightest young protege,  Eddie Newton, who at 22 has the potential to join the England midfield dynasty  of Robson, Platt and Ince.
Provided Cantona's penetrative passing is not hindered by Wembley's  unseasonally long grass (it is significant that the Frenchman has hit peak  form on the worn end-of-season pitches) and Giggs and Kanchelskis find the  freedom to pit their wits against Clarke and Sinclair, it is reasonable to  conclude that United can make it third time lucky.
