At 6:30 a.m. on the dot, the ramps of the landing craft folded down into  the icy water off Utah beach.
Weighted down by the backpacks, the men of the 4th US division had to make  their way through the water.
Among them was President Franklin D. Roosevelt's 57-year-old cousin  General Teddy Roosevelt, who thought it would boost the morale of what he  called the "kids" -- average age 22 -- to see him there in the thick of it.
6:45 a.m.: a terrible shock lay in store for the Americans landing on  Omaha beach, where the 2nd US division found themselves confronted by steep  cliffs and a heavy swell, which swallowed up several barges and amphibious  tanks.
The aerial bombardment had failed to soften up the target, and the sector  was well defended by the German 352nd division, equipped with mortars,  anti-tank guns and machine-guns that rained fire down on the first wave of  troops.
The next wave met the same fate. The morning turned into a massacre. In  all, some 2,500-3,000 dead and wounded American soldiers were left on the  beach, pinned down.
Genral Omar Bradley refused to yield. For every man who fell another was  sent in to fill the breach, and supply ships brought in a never-ending supply  of men and material.
At 7:10 a.m., crack US Rangers set about taking the heights of the Pointe  du Hoc overlooking Omaha, an essential maneouvre if the beachhead was to be  secured.
Colonel James Earl Rudder's 225 men scaled the cliffs with rope ladders  fired up to the top by rockets under withering enemy fire. More than half of  them would lose their lives.
At 7:30 a.m. the order was given to advance up the beach at Omaha to take  the fight to the Germans who had been cutting them down at will.
As men, tanks and jeeps rolled towards the hinterland, the German  resistance weakened.
American filmmaker Samuel Fuller was later to recall that dead and  drowning GIs were simply left to their fate in the drive to advance.
Survivors broke through to the clifftops at 10:00 a.m. In all some 34,000  Americans were to land at Omaha.
