The United States on Wednesday welcomed Russia's  pledge to join NATO's partnership for peace (PFP) programme of military  cooperation with countries of the former Soviet bloc.
US Defence Secretary William Perry said he was pleased by the announcement  Tuesday from Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev
that Moscow was no longer setting conditions for joining the partnership.
He was speaking at a press conference after talks with Grachev on the  sidelines of a meeting Wednesday of defence ministers from the North Atlantic  Treaty Organisation and their partners from the former Warsaw Pact.
Perry said Grachev had given "an excellent presentation" to the NATO  ministers on Tuesday on Russia's new military doctrine to replace the security  blueprint of the defunct Soviet Union.
"It was a truly historic event," he said, adding that it was his fifth  meeting with Grachev. "We've become really close colleagues in resolving  security issues of our two countries," Perry said.
Grachev repeated his declaration late Tuesday that Russia was not  insisting on special political links with NATO as the price for signing the  PFP, which has already been joined by 16 countries of the old Soviet bloc.
But he said Russia still had a list detailing its requirements for PFP  participation, and still wanted links with NATO outside the partnership.
The Russian minister endorsed proposals from the NATO ministers that  issues falling outside the PFP, particularly nuclear weapons, could form the  basis of specific cooperation between NATO and Russia.
This could include controlling the spread of nuclear weapons, nuclear arms  reductions, and moving weapons from republics of the former Soviet Union --  Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan -- back to Russia for destruction.
Grachev said he also proposed Wednesday to present a programme of specific  Russia-NATO cooperation, involving a "protocol of intention or programmes  specific to Russia-NATO cooperation."
But he added that "it would not be correct for Russia to set specific  conditions or to say we want to occupy a better place in PFP" than other  members of the former Soviet empire.
