Two heavy artillery shells hit  Tuzla on Monday, the second such attack in less than 24 hours, witnesses said.
It was not immediately clear whether the attacks claimed victims or caused  any damage.
Earlier, UN protection Force (UNPROFOR) officials said in Sarajevo that  three pieces of heavy weaponry had been sighted by UN military observers in a  Serb-controlled neighborhood in downtown Sarajevo.
The location of the weapons -- two mortar guns and an anti-aircraft canon  -- is in violation of the UN-imposed 20-kilometre (12-mile) exclusion zone  barring heavy weapons around the Bosnian capital.
UNPROFOR spokesman Rob Annink said the two mortar guns were spotted Sunday  in Grbavica. Another UN military source who requested anonymity said the  anti-aircraft gun was also found in the same neighborhood.
Annink said negotiations were underway to transport the weapons to a  collection center.
But the military source said that the Serbs were refusing to budge by  claiming that the weapons had been neutralized.
He said that claim was baseless as the Serbs had only removed the firing  pins "which could be reinstalled in two minutes."
The weekend discovery of the weapons was the latest in a series of  violations of the exclusion zone and a ceasefire agreed in February by  Bosnia's warring factions under the threat of NATO air strikes.
The Serbs earlier this month managed to sneak a tank into Grbavica.
The tank, a T-34, disappeared while being transported on a truck from  Bosnian Serb headquarters at Pale.
UN peacekeepers have also increasingly come under fire, the latest such  incident occuring Sunday when a convoy was targeted in the Mount Igman region,  located about 15 kilometres (nine miles) from Sarajevo.
Annink said that the mostly Moslem Bosnian army was responsible for the  attack but he did not elaborate. He added that UNPROFOR convoys were  encountering increasing problems in southern Bosnia.
He said about 50 civilians, mainly women, have blocked part of the road  linking the Croatian town of Split with the central Bosnian town of Zenica  since this weekend. The women, he said, are demanding to know the wherabouts  of their husbands who have gone missing and want the UN to pay them a fee for  the convoys.
