Mozambique's second national land conference ended  here Friday with only agreement on the need for change.
Participants said continued use of the present land law was painfully  inadequate and likely to result in increasing conflict.
"The current law is outdated, vague and contradictory -- in fact the more  it's applied, the more violent conflicts there are likely to be," said  Jennifer Garvey, a lawyer at the Mineral Resources ministry.
Others at the three-day conference gathering academics, government  directors, subsistence, commercial and corporate farmers, argued the current  law, nationalising all land, must be changed in favour of privatisation, since  a market for land already exists.
Corruption and injustice will be promoted if the law is not changed, one  participant said, citing the concession of 20 million hectares (almost 50  million acres) of land, or a quarter of Mozambique's national territory, to  Indian-based 'Heaven on Earth Development Company (MAHEDCO)' company, of  spiritualist guru, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, which says it wants to create a  "heaven on earth" in Mozambique based on Yogi's philosophy of transcendental  meditation.
One informed researcher at the conference told AFP that since the  Mozambique government and RENAMO rebels signed a peace accord in 1992, there  has been "a major land grab going on, involving top government officials, who  are pushing people off their land for their own speculative interests".
Meanwhile a government source said: "Too many government officials have a  vested interest in the current mess to want to change it".
The law says subsistence farmers have an automatic title to live on land  they traditionally farmed, but lawyers pointed out that in practice, this  right is never respected unless they have a written title to use the land.
The vast majority of Mozambique's mainly small-scale farmer population is  illerate and lack resources to get a land-use title.
Despite the urgent conference call that "something must be done", it was,  however, clear that the land issue is so controversial, nothing will be done   until well after the country's first multi party elections in October.
