Ex-dissident Alexander Solzhenitsyn  has a simple explanation for choosing to return to Moscow overland rather than  by air: he wants to meet the Russian people he has not seen for 20 years.
"I am hoping to meet and listen to people, to confirm or revise my  opinions," he said, speaking while preparing for the transsiberian trip across  seven time zones by luxury train from this far-eastern port.
In particular the Nobel prize-winning author of "The Gulag Archipelago"  said: "I do not know Siberia. I have only ever seen it from the window of a  detention carriage," adding that in a train "you see more than you do in a  plane."
The trip from Vladivostok, the base of the Russian Pacific fleet which was  only opened to foreigners two years ago, to Moscow is 9,300 kilometers (about  5,000 miles), and normally takes several weeks.
The 75-year-old author, who returned here Friday from two decades in  exile, is due to leave early this week -- Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday,  according to various sources.
Solzhenitsyn himself has refused to give any details or his departure date  or the trip itself.
The normal transsiberian route will take him first along the  Chinese-Mongolian border, then on to Novossibirsk, Omsk and Ekaterinburg in  the Urals, before finally turning north toward the Russian capital.
The train carriage which will carry Solzhenitsyn has raised some eyebrows  -- it houses facilities formerly used by the senior communist officials and  currently by government ministers.
These include a private kitchen, bedroom, telephone, his own personal cook  and maitre d', according to employees on the train, to which the carriage has  already been hitched up.
"If Alexander Issayevich (Solzhenitsyn) were to take a normal Russian  train, he would return to the United States immediately," said one policeman  here, in reference to the state of the Russian railway system.
The writer is to be accompanied by his immediate family, including his  wife Natalia, who is handling all organizational details, and his sons  Yermolay and Stepan, who are dealing with all press arrangements.
In the two days since his return to his native land Solzhenitsyn has had  little chance to meet local people -- largely due to the media scrum following  him wherever he goes.
On Sunday he finally escaped from the crowds, spending the day on the  island of Popov, about an hour's boat ride from Vladivostok, staying in a  dacha facing the Pacific Ocean.
