French industrialist Didier Pineau-Valencienne  was interrogated at length by police here Sunday two days after being taken  into custody on fraud charges, officials said.
Meanwhile in Paris 36 leading business figures, including former French  premier Edith Cresson, signed a public statement in defence of  Pineau-Valenciennes, head of industrial giant Schneider SA.
The statement said the signatories wanted to "express the emotion which  they feel about the action taken against Didier Pineau-Valencienne," and  praised his "moral rigour, integrity and competence."
They also said they wanted to "bear witness to the respect and confidence"  in which they held him. The signatories included Marc Vienot of Societe  Generale and Michel Pebereau of the Banque Nationale de Paris.
Pineau-Valencienne was charged with fraud and held here at dawn Friday  after being quizzed by investigators for more than 20 hours. He had travelled  to the Belgian capital voluntarily to answer questions.
In Brussels Sunday, officials said Pineau-Valencienne was interrogated  before being returned to his cell late in the day. Under Belgian law he can be  held for five days, until Wednesday, when he must appear before a judge.
He is being held at a prison outside Brussels. Witnesses said police  arrived Sunday morning to take him for questioning at police headquarters. He  was returned to his cell late Sunday afternoon.
Close aides said Pineau-Valenciennes had asked for no special privileges  while being held in prison, and had offered to give English lessons to fellow  inmates.
The charges against him, specifically forgery, using false documents,  fraud, false accounting and breach of confidence, are related in particular to  two Schneider subsidiaries, Cofibel and Cofimines.
In November 1992, Schneider offered shares in the two subsidiaries for   public sale. A dispute arose over the price at which the shares were offered  on the open market.
Accusations were also made, and published in the Belgian press, involving  drug and mafia money laundering connected with another subsidiary.
The affair's political implications for relations between Paris and  Brussels are still unclear. France's ambassador to Belgium, Jacques Berniere,  who visited Pineau-Valencienne in prison, said "high-level concern" had been  expressed to Belgian authorities.
France and Germany are currently supporting the candidature of Belgian  Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene as successor to Jacques Delors as president of  the European Commission -- a post which is to be decided next month.
Belgian Justice Minister Melchior Wathelet said in a television interview  that, "Politics does not interfere with justice," adding that "examining  magistrates do not take decisions lightly."
Schneider is the 16th-biggest French industrial group and the world leader  in industrial electrical installations.
In Paris Friday, Schneider shares were suspended and later plunged 5.6  percent to end the day at 390 francs, following the announcement of  Pineau-Valencienne's arrest.
