South Korea warned Friday it would consider asking  the UN Security Council to take action if North Korea refused to suspend the  replacement of fuel rods at its controversial nuclear reactor.
The decision came at a security coordination meeting here in which cabinet  members determined that North Korea's removal of spent fuel from the  five-megawatt reactor at its Yongbyon nuclear complex was a serious violation  of nuclear safeguards.
"It's regrettable that the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency)  inspection team in Pyongyang had confirmed the discharge of spent fuel rods,"  the foreign ministry said in a statement.
South Korea will discuss necessary steps for sanctions with the  international community if North Korea continues to withdraw used fuel rods  from the reactor without discussions with the IAEA, the statement said.
The nuclear watchdog, based on a report from its inspection team currently  in North Korea, sent a telex overnight urging Pyongyang to stop any further  withdrawal of fuel rods without its monitors present.
The removal of the rods, if not halted immediately, could wreck the  agency's attempts to see if spent fuel had already been taken from the  reactor, it said.
The IAEA said inspectors on site had "confirmed that core discharge has  indeed started," urging Pyonyang to defer any further discharge and make  prompt arrangements for requisite safeguards measures.
"As of today, it still seems possible to implement the required safety  measures," the IAEA said. It proposed to send a team immediately for  discussions with North Korea on implementing the checks.
At its cabinet meeting in Seoul, the South Korean government decided to  draw up detailed countermeasures only after determining North Korea's attitude  to the message, officials here said.
"We expect that North Korea will respond to the IAEA proposal soon. And we  will decide ways to cope with the problem as soon as North Korea announces its  answer," said Kim Hyung-Ki, a unification ministry spokesman.
Unification Minister Lee Hong-Koo told the meeting that the prospect for a  negotiated settlement was not "totally pessimistic," the spokesman said.
"The IAEA expressed its position to Pyongyang, and now what is important is  North Korea's choice," Lee was quoted as saying.
