Yemen on Monday appealed for urgent international  aid to help victims of a four-week-old civil war between northern and southern  forces, the United Nations representative announced here.
Ouni al-Hani said the sought-after assistance, including tents for an  estimated 100,000 persons who have been displaced by the fighting along with  medicine and food, would be made available to "all areas of Yemen."
The government has also appealed for help in rebuilding public facilities  damaged by the fighting, which erupted on May 5 after authorities from  northern and southern Yemen failed to agree on the administration of the  country.
North Yemen, a conservative Arab state, merged witb Marxist South Yemen in  May 1990, although their armed forces remained separate.
No official toll in human and material losses has been issued in either  north or south Yemen, but the Arab League has estimated that the fighting has  left more than 50,000 people dead and done more than 10 billion dollars' worth  of damage.
But a spokesman in the Yemeni capital Sanaa described the figure of 50,000  dead as "very exaggerated."
In another development, the speaker of the Yemeni parliament, Sheikh  Abdallah ibn Hussein al-Ahmar, urged members of the Non-Aligned Movement not  to recognize the new Democratic Republic of Yemen that has been proclaimed in  the south of the country.
The appeal was sent to Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Mussa one day ahead  of a meeting in Cairo of non-aligned foreign ministers.
Sheikh Al-Ahmar, according to the Yemeni news agency SABA, argued that  such recognition would amount to "interference in the internal affairs of  Yemen and would lead to an escalation in the conflict."
Also on Monday the Yemeni government sent envoys to New York to take part  in a United Nations Security Council debate on the civil war, SABA reported.
Abdel Aziz Abdel Ghani, a member of the presidential council, said he and  Justice Minister Abdallah Ahmad Ghanem would "expose the truth of what is  happening in Yemen."
The Yemeni people expect the Security Council, which is to meet on Tuesday,  to help "safeguard the country's unity and democracy," he said, accusing the  south of mounting an armed rebellion to tear Yemen apart.
Sanaa has said it opposes the UN debate, arguing that the north-south  civil war is a strictly internal matter. But authorities in southern Yemen  have welcomed UN efforts to bring about a ceasefire in the war.
