The top leader of the Social Democratic Party (SDP)  indicated Sunday that the second largest opposition force was ready to return  to Japan's ruling coalition if Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata resigned.
"It's one way (to return to power) if we can have a change to discuss the  framework of a new coalition after the Hata cabinet resigns en bloc," SDP  chairman Tomiichi Murayama was quoted as saying at a meeting in Fukushima  Prefecture, north of here.
News reports quoted Murayama as stressing that the SDP would seek the  dissolution of the 511-member lower house of parliament for general elections  if its discussions with coalition parties on a new cabinet were unsuccessful.
According to Japanese reports, SDP secretary general Wataru Kubo indicated  in Dalian, China, Saturday that the SDP, which withdrew from the ruling  coalition last month, might return to the alliance if Hata chose to resign  voluntarily instead of dissolving the lower house.
Pressure from the SDP and the largest opposition Liberal Democratic Party  (LDP) is expected to force Hata to make a serious decision -- mass resignation  of his cabinet or dissolving the lower house -- after the government's fiscal  1994 budget is approved by parliament, mostly probably in June.
Kubo told reporters in Dalian that the Hata cabinet should resign en masse  once the fiscal 1994 budget cleared parliament and that if Hata failed to do  so, the SDP might table a no-confidence motion against his cabinet.
Leaders of the LDP, the former ruling party which lost its 38-year grip on  Japanese politics in general elections last July, have repeatedly indicated  that the party was ready to submit such a motion against the Hata cabinet  after the budget was approved.
Any attempt to topple Hata's minority government will be successful if the  LDP and SDP join hands as their combined number of seats represent comfortable  majorities in both houses of parliament.
LDP president Yohei Kono said on a television program here Sunday that his  party was ready to form a caretaker cabinet to oversee elections if the  fragile Hata cabinet collapsed.
Kono said he wanted the next general elections to be held under the  current multi-seat constituency system because more time might be needed to  complete a new system.
Parliament is to finalize the new election system on the basis of a report  to be submitted by a panel of experts before the end of this year.
Opposition parties said they were ready to grill the Hata cabinet over its  security and tax policies at budget committee meetings opening Monday.
Analysts said that Hata might be forced to resign or dissolve the lower  house before the current parliament session ends on June 29.
The LDP says that the Hata cabinet is not qualified to manage Japanese  politics as the coalition does not have a majority in parliament, while the  SDP says it is dissatisfied with politics managment by the ruling camp.
Hata has reportedly responded flexibly to the SDP proposal saying it was  "one idea."
Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroshi Kumagai, the chief government spokesman,  has also told reporters that the cabinet would take Kubo's proposal seriously.
Meanwhile, the United Social Democratic Party, one of the ruling coalition  forces, disbanded Sunday. Two of its three lawmakers will join former prime  minister Morihiro Hosokawa's Japan New Party, while the other will be  independent, sources said.
The minor party, formed 16 years ago, joined the coalition camp with its  leader Satsuki Eda appointed as director general of the Science and Technology  Agency last August.
