A government prosecutor said Wednesday he plans  to drop vandalism charges against a Malaysian teenager allegedly involved in a  spate of spray painting cars with a young American, Michael Fay, who was caned  recently.
Ng Cheng Thiam told juvenile court magistrate Tan Choon Kiat that the  prosecution was going to rely on the testimony of accomplices of the  15-year-old, who cannot be named under Singapore laws because of his age.
He said that after reviewing the evidence of the case, the prosecution was  satisfied that the "reliability of the accomplices as witnesses is now in  doubt."
The Singapore American School student was orginally charged with two  counts of vandalism, two of mischief and one of theft, which was amended  Wednesday to a charge of possessing four Mercedes-Benz emblems believed to  have been stolen.
He pleaded guilty to the amended charge but sentence was postponed to next  week to allow his lawyer to prepare his mitigation plea.
Ng told the court that on the boy's conviction on the amended charge, the  prosecution would formally apply to drop the vandalism and mischief charges.
Under Singapore law, vandalism of this kind is punishable by mandatory  caning. A juvenile court could not have ordered a caning in this case because  of the Malaysian's age, but could have referred a convicted offender to a  higher court for a caning sentence if it deemed the punishment appropriate.
On Tuesday, the prosecution dropped three vandalism charges against  American Stephen Freehill, 16, also citing the unreliability of accomplices as  witnesses.
The Malaysian and Freehill were in a group of international school  students which included Fay, Hong Kong national Shiu Chi Ho, 17 and another  15-year-old Malaysian who were charged with spray painting cars last year.
Fay, who pleaded guilty to spray-painting cars, pelting them with eggs and  keeping stolen road signs and flags, was given four strokes of a rattan cane  two weeks ago after the Singapore government reduced his sentence by two  lashes following President Bill Clinton's intervention.
He is also serving four months in Queenstown Remand Prison where Shiu, who  pleaded not guilty, is serving eight months and waiting to be given 12 strokes  of the cane.
Shiu is making preparations to appeal to Singapore President Ong Teng  Cheong for clemency.
The other Malaysian boy is spending two months in a remand home for boys.
