PLO leader Yasser Arafat was urged Sunday to  publicly denounce reports that his wife was filing for divorce and that her  uncle was being questioned in Tunis in a corruption inquiry.
Georges Hawa, the uncle of Arafat's wife Suha Tawil, denied he was being  held in Tunis and said his niece was not filing for divorce in an interview  published by Al-Hayat newspaper.
Hawa urged Arafat to hold a press conference within 24 hours to denounce  the unfounded reports "otherwise I will have to reveal the names of those  behind this campaign and to open files which I have not wished to open so far."
He said the rumours were bring spread by people wanting to discredit the  Palestine Liberation Organisation chairman.
Palestinian sources at PLO headquarters in Tunis have said that Arafat  ordered Hawa's arrest last week in an inquiry into bribes which he allegedly  took from foreign firms involving deals with the PLO.
Informed sources said Hawa was released on Wednesday after a five-day  detention but Palestinian sources later said he was still being held in the  Tunisian capital.
Hawa said he had not been in Tunis for over a month and had spent the past  fortnight in Paris. "I stayed 12 days at the Concorde-Saint Lazare and you can  confirm this with the hotel management," he told Al-Hayat in London.
Hawa said he was not involved in any contracts on behalf of the PLO to  carry out any projects, adding: "I believe that Abu Ammar (Arafat),  personally, and my niece are the targets of this political campaign."
He also said denied reports that Tawil was currently in Paris to file for  divorce.
"I spoke to her yesterday. She was at her husband's home and there are no  differences between them. Abu Ammar respects her and and she considers the  ground on which he treads sacred," Hawa said in the interview.
Tawil denied last week any plans for divorce and told Al-Hayat the couple  was bound together "until death."
Colleagues of the PLO chief said Arafat had been treated twice last week  for stress and spent a night in hospital with some officials saying the  fatigue could have been the result of the reported family conflicts.
