More wild and unruly celebrations tarnished  Indonesia's ninth Thomas Cup triumph over defending champions Malaysia here on  Saturday night.
Amidst fears of a repeat of mobbing that marked the Indonesian women's  triumph over China in Friday's Uber Cup final, organisers called off the final  when Ardy Wiranata beat Ong Ewe Hock to give the host nation an unbeatable 3-0  unbeatable lead.
Police had to hold back the wild 10,000 crowd who roared Ardy Wiranata and  his teammates to a victory that brought badminton's premier team trophy back  to Indonesia for the first time in 10 years.
Pleas for calm were ignored and Malaysian team manager Punch Gunalan said  Sunday his players had been "too scared" to finish the last two matches.
Malaysian coaches Yang Yang and Cheng Changjie had bottles of water thrown  at them by the fanatical Indonesian fans, team officials said. Other objects  were also thrown.
"If we had carried on the players would have been harmed," said Gunalan,  "I don't understand why they do it, Indonesia would have won without the  supporters."
Wiranata beat Ong 15-11, 15-5 to seal the victory and was thrown up onto  the shoulders of his teammates within minutes.
The aggressive tactics of the reigning Korean and Japan Open champion  typified the attitude of the team considered one of the strongest ever seen in  world badminton.
"I went for long rallies in the first game to wear down his energy and  then accelerated in the second because I knew Ong was tiring," said Wiranata  who later joined teammates with a celebratory jump into the Hilton Hotel  swimming pool.
Heryanto Arbie beat Malaysia's top player Rashid Sidek to put Indonesia  one up.
Heryanto led the first match with 7-1 and finished the game at 15-6. In  the second, he led 5-0 but his Malaysian opponent fought back to 14-11 before  going down 15-11.
Indonesia's world number one ranked doubles team Gunawan and Bambang  Suprianto outclassed Cheah Soon Kit and Soo Beng Kiang 15-10, 6-15 and 15-8 to  bring victory closer.
Police spent most of Wiranata's match holding back frenzied fans whose  celebrations were held up as Ong fought back from 8-0 down in the second game  down to make his defeat more respectable.
The organisers called off the final doubles between Indonesian doubles  Ricky Subagja and Rexy Mainaky against Malaysia's Tan Kim Her and Yap Kim Hock  and the singles between Hermawan Susanto versus Foo Kok Keong.
Indonesia last held both team world championship titles after the men beat  Malaysia in the 1976 Thomas final -- following the women's victory in the 1975   Uber final over Japan.
Indonesia have now won half of the 18 Thomas Cup tournaments held since  1949. Their first win was 1958 and they won it four times in a row up to 1982  but have failed since 1984 when they took it back from China.
The women have now won the Uber Cup twice and they have also discovered a  new star in 14-year-old Mia Audina who won the deciding match against China's  Zhang Nin to give Indonesia a 3-2 win.
After that win, the packed crowd rushed onto the court pushing aside  officials and police to embrace the teenager who is now being hailed as the  successor to the country's world number one player Susi Susanti.
