President Boris Yeltsin called Thursday on the  counterintelligence service to crack down on economic crime and cited as its  new priorities the fight against arms and drugs smuggling, contraband and  corruption.
In an address to members of the reformed KGB, Yeltsin mapped out a new  conception of the security service which he said must now ensure the economic  security of the country, ITAR-TASS reported.
Yeltsin's address came after the director of the Russian  counterintelligence service, Sergei Stepashin, told the newspaper  Nezavissimaya Gazeta that the amount of weapons stolen from the former Red  Army in the past three years could "arm tens of thousands of men."
Stepashin said that controls on arms sales and production had been  tightened over the past year but that smuggling continued and was left  unchecked because of Russia's porous borders with the other former Soviet  republics.
"The transparency of our borders makes it impossible to fight efficiently  against contraband," Stepashin said in the interview published Thursday.
Yeltsin told the security officers that success in waging the battle  against economic crime would raise the prestige of the counterintelligence  service in Russian society.
He also called on spies to step up counterintelligence work against  foreign security services which he said have intensified their activity on  Russian territory lately.
The head of economic investigations for the counterintelligence service,  Vladimir Tsekhanov, told the newspaper Rossiskaya Gazeta that foreign  intelligence agencies were focussing on economic issues.
Tsekhanov said that former socialist countries and the Baltic states were  assisting foreign intelligence services in gathering information on the  Russian economy.
"We are heading for a shift from a military confrontation to an economic  one, the goal of which is to ensure that Russia remains a provider of raw  materials and that it does not gain access to international markets," said  Tsekhanov.
The official also stated that economic crime posed a serious threat to  Russian security and cited as examples of this danger the rise in the  contraband of strategic materials, arms trafficking, money laundering, art  theft, the expansion of organised crime and the spread of corruption in  government and in law enforcement agencies.
In Washington, the director of the US Federal Bureau of Investigations  warned Wednesday that Russian organised crime was poised to get its hands on  nuclear arms and weapons-grade nuclear materials.
Louis Freeh, who will travel to Moscow next month to open the first  permanent office of the FBI in the former Soviet Union, said the Russian mafia  was eyeing the nuclear weapons for "sale to the highest bidder".
Concerning drug smuggling, counterintelligence officials claim  Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran have secured routes through Russia to get to  European and North American markets.
Tsekhanov said that production centers of narcotics were located in  Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Lithuania and Central Asia.
