Forceful action was needed to stop the killing  in Rwanda and restore law and order in the war-torn country said UN Secretary  General Boutros Boutros-Ghali here Thursday.
"If we do not intervene in a situation where over a quarter of a million  people are reported to have been killed in a few weeks, where will be  intervene?" Boutros-Ghali said.
In a commencement speech at Johns Hopkins' Nitze School of Advanced  International Studies, he cited Rwanda as an example of the demands on the  United Nations in a world of ethnic violence and "stateless countries."
Rwanda was plunged into inter-tribal slaughter following the death April 6  of President Juvenal Habyarimana in a suspicious plane crash at the Kigali  airport.
The United Nations, which withdrew all but 400 of its 2,500 peacekeepers  from Rwanda after the violence erupted, is now planning to deploy 5,500  peacekeepers there, but it has had trouble getting member countries to  contribute troops.
"Horror still threatens the country. The killing goes on. Many who  advocate action on human rights elsewhere are strangely reluctant when it  comes to Rwanda," Boutros-Ghali said.
"I strongly believe that forceful action is needed to stop the massacre  and restore law and order," he said.
The UN secretary general said that whereas in the past all parties  welcomed UN peacekeepers, who were lightly armed and expected little trouble,  today "there are as many types of peace-keeping as there are conflicts."
He described the record of those peacekeeping efforts as a mixture of  success and failure.
In Bosnia-Hercegovina, UN peacekeepers had succeeded in containing the  conflict within the borders of the former Yugoslavia and have worked  heroically to protect civilians, he said.
"The humanitarian dimension is crucial, but major questions are still  posed: These deal with the acquisition of territory by force, punishment of  crimes of war, protection for minority rights and the territorial integrity of  member states," he said.
UN efforts to restore democracy in Haiti have raised unanswered questions  over the effectiveness of sanctions, he said.
"In Haiti there is no change in the attitude of the military. No steps  have been taken to comply with Security Council resolutions," he said.
Boutros-Ghali also criticized UN member states for failing to provide the  resources needed to tackle the security tasks facing the world body.
