US and Japanese officials met for more than two  hours here Monday, their fifth day of talks to try to break a three-month  deadlock in bilateral trade negotiations.
Officials of both sides said they planned to meet again later in the day,  but said they could not comment on whether the talks were likely to go into a  sixth day.
Asked to comment on the chances of reaching an agreement in the dispute,  the United States Trade Representative (USTR) Mickey Kantor said "I am not  optimistic or pessimistic. I am realistic."
Sakayuki Hayashi, Japanese deputy foreign minister for economic affairs,  would say only that the two sides would meet again in the afternoon as he left  the USTR meeting after almost two and a half hours of talks.
But an official close to the Japanese delegation said Saturday that things  were moving forward, and Commerce Secretary Ron Brown said Monday that the  fact that the talks had been prolonged "is a good and positive sign."
The talks, which began Thursday, were originally scheduled to last only  one day but have been repeatedly extended as the two sides try to resolve  their differences.
Monday morning's meeting was their sixth session since Thursday.
The two sides are trying to agree on ground rules for resuming  negotiations on ways to open Japan's markets and reduce its 60 billion dollar  trade surplus with Washington.
The talks collapsed in February in disagreement over how to measure  progress.
Kantor on Monday described as inaccurate a Wall Street Journal report that  the US side was easing its position and was prepared to abandon its insistence  on numerical targets to measure progress, something Japan had rejected as  managed trade and leading to quotas.
"We have not backed off," Kantor told reporters. "We have never asked for  market share."
The Journal quoted US negotiators as saying they were close to a deal in  which Washington would pledge not to seek specific numerical targets for  foreign imports into Japan.
In return, Japan would agree to set goals to open its markets including  some way to measure progress and an acceptance of the need to boost imports.
Reports from Tokyo before the talks began suggested the Japanese team  could bring proposals for at least partial acceptance of numerical targets in  the government procurement sector.
US officials have refused to say whether the Japanese brought any such  offer, but it has become clear as the talks are repeatedly extended that the  two sides are engaged in serious discussion.
The two sides are trying to agree on the definition of "objective  criteria" to measure progress in opening Japan's markets in the key areas of  government procurement, the auto trade, and financial services under the July  framework agreement.
The government procurement talks cover computers, supercomputers,  satellites, medical technology and telecommunications.
