Northern troops said they captured the south's main  air base of Al-Anad on Monday as Yemen's President Ali Abdallah Saleh ordered  southern leaders to either surrender or flee the country to end the civil war.
Saleh's troops also opened a new front in the eastern oil province of  Shabwa, as the south, facing a siege of its Aden stronghold, renewed calls for  a ceasefire.
Al-Anad, which controls a key highway leading to the port city, fell to  the northern army, said the official news agency Saba, run by the north.
It quoted military sources as saying Saleh's troops were "mopping up the  last pockets of the rebel forces in Al-Anad base," around 60 kilometres (35  miles) north of Aden.
"A unit of the (south's) 22nd brigade and around 100 members of the  special guard of Ali Salem al-Baid surrendered to the forces of unity and  legality," Saba said.
More than 20,000 soldiers loyal to Baid, the vice president and bitter  rival of Saleh, were deployed in the base, according to southern military  officials.
There was no independent confirmation of the fall of Al-Anad, the second  such claim in a week. But by the weekend, Saleh's had captured the town of  Daleh near the base.
A spokesman on Aden television, meanwhile, insisted southern forces had  inflicted heavy losses on the assailants on all fronts, including the north,  and forced their retreat.
In Sanaa, an Arab League peace mission in the capital since last Thursday  finally met the president, whose country was set up in May 1990 when  conservative North Yemen united with the Marxist South.
The civil war which broke out on May 5 was "an internal affair and a  rebellion by a band of secessionists who are rising up against the legal  powers" and four-year-old unity of Yemen, Saleh said.
The president, who has so far ruled out a ceasefire and is seeking a  victory on the battlefield, ordered southern leaders "to surrender to be given  a fair trial or to flee the country so as to avoid more bloodshed."
Despite the north ruling out foreign mediation, the Arab mission's leader  Mohammad Saeed Bayraqdar said the League "stands ready at any time to play a  role in helping to preserve Yemen's unity."
There has been no official casualty toll for the fighting, in which at  least 175 Somali refugees near Aden were killed in cross-fire.
Baid, meanwhile, renewed the south's ceasefire offer, calling for  implementation of the February 20 reconciliation deal he signed with Saleh in  Amman.
"The situation on the battlefronts can not be stabilized," he told a press  conference. "We oppose the war but we will resist the invaders."
Northern ground forces, including tanks and heavy artillery, are trying to  reach Aden in an pincer movement from the north, along the Sanaa-Aden road,  Zanjibar to the west, and Abyan to the east.
A northern spokesman said the fighting in Shabwa, 300 kilometers (180  miles) northeast of Aden, is centered on northern attempts to capture the main  city of Ataq, and another town, Bayhan.
Baid's forces are using extensive air power to check the advancing troops,  including firing long range Scud missiles, the spokesman added.
A defeat for the southerners in Shabwa would deprive them of Massila oil  field revenues, set at 170,000 barrels per day. Massila's output is shipped by  pipeline to the southern port of Mukalla.
It would leave all of Yemen's oil resources in the hands of Saleh, since  his troops already control the other key oil province of Maareb.
Yemeni Foreign Minister Mohammad Al-Bassandawa, who is loyal to the  president, said the north wanted to blockade Aden to force the surrender of  Baid and his followers.
