US and South Korean presidents agreed Tuesday that  the two countries must close ranks to end North Korea's nuclear standoff as  news reports said Seoul could push for sanctions against Pyongyang outside the  United Nations.
"The two presidents agreed the North Korean nuclear issue has reached a  very dangerous point and that it is very important for the US and South Korea  to cooperate closely to face it squarely," spokesman Chu Don-Shik said.
He was referring to a 20-minute telephone conversation between South  Korean President Kim Young-Sam and US President Bill Clinton. They agreed to  remain in touch on the nuclear issue during their upcoming overseas trips.
On the eve of Kim's departure for a week-long state visit to Russia, South  Korean armed forces and police were placed on heightened alert Tuesday, a  defense ministry spokesman said. But the move was not linked to any unusual  military movement in the North.
The telephone conversation came a few hours before a UN Security Council  statement urged Pyongyang to "proceed with the discharge operations at the  five megawatt reactor in a manner which preserves the technical possibility of  fuel measurements," in Yongbyon, 90 kilometers (56 miles) north of Pyongyang.
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) earlier said if the  refuelling continued in a way that did not conform to their requirements, the  North would destroy evidence which could verify whether it had or was  diverting plutonium for weapons.
Clinton told Kim that although the UN statement stopped short of  threatening sanctions, it was significant in that it urged the North to abide  by its obligations related to nuclear safeguards for a negotiated settlement.
Kim said he agreed with the UN Security Council's move to exhaust peaceful  means to resolve the issue before shifting to sanctions, but added: "If these  (dialogue) efforts turn out to be fruitless, sanctions against the North would  be unavoidable."
Kim also said China would feel obliged to go along with the United States,  Japan and South Korea this time because it had campaigned for the UN Security  Council to issue a mild statement against the North on March 31, which turned  out to be ineffective.
A cabinet meeting chaired by Deputy Prime and Unification Minister Lee  Hong-Koo decided Tuesday that dialogue efforts should continue until an IAEA  board meeting scheduled for June 6 was held before seeking to impose  sanctions.
The cabinet was ordered by Kim to work out measures to prepare South Korea  for various nuclear-related scenarios, including economic sanctions by the UN.
Local news reports said the cabinet members discussed the possibility of  sanctions by Western countries independent of the United Nations if China uses  its veto power in favor of the North.
North Korea blocked IAEA inspectors from taking samples of spent fuel from  the reactor in Yongbyon, which was needed to determine if plutonium had been  diverted or was being diverted for weapons.
It instead called for a "package deal," under which the United States  would improve ties with North Korea and stop Team Spirit military exercises  with South Korea in exchange for its allowance of full nuclear transparency.
