Pakistan's Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto said  Thursday her country had put forward counter-proposals to a US plan for  non-intrusive inspections of Pakistan's nuclear installations.
The proposals were passed on to Washington by President Farooq Ahmed  Leghari, who is in the United States on a private visit, she said at a press  conference here.
"We are using this occasion to have informal talks" with US leaders and  explain Pakistan's position following US Under Secretary of State Strobe  Talbott's trip to Islamabad in April, she added.
Bhutto did not elaborate on the contents of the counter-proposals.
Foreign Minister Sardar Assef Ahmed Ali said last week that Washington had  proposed a "non-intrusive" inspection of Pakistan's nuclear plants to verify  that Islamabad was not producing nuclear weapons. He added that Pakistan was  prepared to consider indirect verification of its programme.
The US proposals followed Talbott's talks on the nuclear issue with  Pakistani leaders, when the two sides agreed to pursue a policy of "quiet  diplomacy" to improve bilateral relations.
Leghari, who in United States to attend his son's graduation, held talks  with US Secretary of State Warren Christopher and met Vice President Al Gore,  while officials of the two countries Thursday began two days of talks in  Washington.
Pakistan's controversial nuclear programme has caused strain between  Washington and Islamabad, with the United States in 1990 cutting off more than  500 million dollars worth of military and economic assistance to Pakistan.
Washington also stopped delivery of 38 F-16 jets, following reports that  Pakistan was pursuing a weapons-oriented nuclear programme, a charge Islamabad  has denied.
In April Washington asked Islamabad to agree to a "verifiable cap" on  production of missile materials in exchange for a one-time waiver of the  embargo under the 1990 Pressler Amendment.
Although the proposal was discussed during Talbott's visit, no immediate  agreement was reported.
Bhutto said she wanted to see an improvement in relations between the two  nations.
Pakistan shared US concern over nuclear non-proliferation, she said, but  added that she saw the Pressler Amendment as a "veto" in the hands of  Pakistan's traditional rival, India.
Islamabad wants a "non-discriminatory" application of the legislation,  forcing India, which exploded a nuclear device 20 years ago, to sign the  nuclear non-proliferation treaty.
