Vietnamese Foreign Minister Nguyen Manh Cam said  here Friday that Vietnam favors the resumption of full diplomatic relations  with the United States as soon as possible, but that a decision is up to the  Americans.
"We are ready, but the ball is in the American court and I regret that I  cannot say when full diplomatic ties will be restored between our two  countries," Can said as he wound up a three-day visit to Bangladesh.
Cam's comments at a press conference followed the announcement that  Vietnam and the United States had taken another step toward diplomatic  normalization by announcing that they would open liaison offices in each  other's capitals.
Cam said the only thing holding up normal diplomatic ties was US domestic  politics, an apparent reference to pressure by American groups which claim  Vietnam has not fully accounted for US servicemen still listed as missing in  action from the Vietnam War.
"I am sure it will come sooner or later. Ties have improved since the  (President Bill) Clinton administration lifted the economic embargo on  Vietnam" in February, he said.
Cam, who stopped here en route to Cairo, where he was to attend the  Non-Aligned Movement's foreign ministers' conference, was the first Vietnamese  official to visit Bangladesh in 16 years.
Bilateral relations cooled after Vietnam invaded Cambodia in 1978 but  gradually improved with Vietnam's emergence as a potential Southeast Asian  economic power. Bangladesh opened a diplomatic mission in Hanoi last November.
While here, Cam met President Abdur Rahman Biswas, Prime Minister Khaleda  Zia, Foreign Minister Mustafizur Rahman and business leaders.
The two countries pledged in two agreements signed Thursday to work toward  improving ties. Cam said the pacts gave a legal framework for cooperation and  his visit here would promote mutual understanding and trust.
As for Vietnam's historic rival, China, Cam said Vietnam wanted a  "bilateral dialogue" with Beijing to resolve territorial disputes on land and  sea, saying "both sides should restrain themselves from force or the threat to  use force."
Asked to comment on the US decision to renew China's most-favored-nation  trading status, Cam said only that Vietnam -- one of only nine countries which  does not enjoy MFN -- wanted it as soon as possible for itself.
As for the human rights situation in Vietnam, Cam said the Vietnamese had  regained their rights only after a hard struggle for independence.
"We will promote them further to make a government for the people, of the  people and controlled by the people," he added, but "first comes the right to  live in freedom and independence."
