European Union foreign ministers meeting here  Monday were trying to reinforce a shaky new US-Russian-EU initiative to end  the two-year civil war in Bosnia-Hercegovina.
The EU meeting followed agreement in Geneva on Saturday between the United  States, Russia and five EU countries -- France, Britain, Germany, Belgium and  Greece -- to push for a four-month ceasefire and new negotiations.
"We want to push the Geneva initiative," Spanish Foreign Minister Javier  Solana said as he entered the meeting.
British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said the plan was just a "first  step" that still depended on its acceptance by the Serb, Moslem and Croat  forces battling for a bigger share of the former Yugoslavia republic.
Both Moslem and Serb leaders in Bosnia gave a chilly initial reception to  the initiative, which would give Moslems and Croats together 51 percent of  Bosnia, and the Serbs 49 percent, down from the 70 percent they currently hold.
The Moslems and Croats are claiming this is not enough. They want 58  percent, on the grounds that together the two groups make up 61 percent of the  population. And the Bosnian Serbs want to be left with more than 49 percent.
But Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev was quoted as saying in Moscow  on Monday that the reaction of the belligerants to the Geneva initiative was  "promising", since they had not rejected it outright.
The Geneva initiative is a critical effort to stop the Bosnian conflict  entering an even more dangerous phase after two years of fruitless EU and  Western attempts to end it.
France has threatened to withdraw its peacekeeping forces from Bosnia if  fighting continues there.
This could lead to the collapse of the United Nations humanitarian mission  in Bosnia and the world body's efforts to protect six "safe areas" of Moslem  concentration from being over-run by Serb forces.
Meanwhile, pressure has been building up in the United States in favour of  lifting an arms embargo in former Yugoslavia so that the balance of military  power would be tilted in favour of the Bosnian Moslems.
The US Senate voted last week for such a move which, if implemented, would  put the final nails in UN attempts to keep buffer forces in Bosnia.
And fighting between Bosnian Serbs and Moslems around the northern Bosnian  town of Tuzla has intensified in recent days, with each side accusing the  other of preparing an offensive.
Tuzla is one of four Bosnian towns under North Atlantic Treaty  Organisation protection. NATO decided last month to bomb any Serb heavy  weapons shelling these Moslem pockets.
There have also been suggestions that the NATO ultimatum should be  extended to a new Serb-Moslem flashpoint in the Bosnian conflict -- the Brcko  corridor in northern Bosnia which links Serbia to its conquests in western  Bosnia.
Failure of the Geneva initiative would put greater pressure on an  unwilling NATO to carry out its threats and deepen the west's military  involvement in the Bosnian civil war.
The European foreign ministers were also trying Monday to strengthen an EU  plan to take over the temporary administration of the southern Bosnian city of  Mostar.
Fighting between Croats and Moslems there has eased off over the past two  months as the two sides negotiated a Moslem-Croat federation in Bosnia,  brokered by the United States.
But an accord concerning details of a neutral EU administration of Mostar  has still not been reached because of what one diplomat here called "an  atmosphere of massive distrust" between Moslems and Croats there.
