Baron Marcel Bich, the founder of the Bic empire of  throwaway pens and disposable razors, has died aged 79, his family said  Tuesday.
The industrialist died Monday, they said, but did not state the cause of  death.
The Bic company he founded in 1950 made him one of France's and the  world's legendary industrialists after his cheap ballpoint pens and razors,  cigarette lighters and other disposable objects won a world-wide market.
One of the first to promote the modernday throwaway market, he realised  early on the fortune that could be made from stacking them high and selling  them cheap.
Unlike many in the French business world, Bich was famously secretive,  exhibiting a dislike of bankers, civil servants and journalists. "He never had  a business lunch or dinner in his life. Meals were for the family," his son  Bruno said.
A regal figure in a white blazer and gold-barred cap, Bich's bronzed face  was photographed more often at the helm of his yacht, Le France, than posing  outside one of his factories. Yachting was a passion and he entered his boat  in the Americas cup and its qualifying races in 1970, 1974, 1977 and 1980.
The baron headed his firm until last year when he turned over the  chairmanship to his son Bruno. In 1973, the Bic company also took over the  French hosiery firm DIM, and the Rosy women's lingerie company, making his  group the number one in lingerie in France and Italy.
Born on July 29, 1914 in Turin, northern Italy, he was the son of a French  mother and an Italian father. His father, the engineer Baron Aime Mario Bich,  was from an old aristocratic family from the Savoie region on the border of  France and modernday Switzerland.
From the age of 19, Bich started working as a door-to-door salesman before  joining an office equipment firm where he rose to be director of production by  the age of 25. After World War II, he used all his savings to buy a small pen  factory. His goal was to produce his own cheap, disposable ballpoint pen -- an  unknown product at the time.
Perfecting an idea taken from the Hungarian Lazlo Biro, Bich produced his  first brainwave -- the throwaway bic pen. The pen went on sale in France in  November 1953, selling 10,000 a day and, within three years, 250,000.
A success in France, he expanded first into Italy, then in 1957 bought out  the English firm Biro-Swann and the following year took on the lucrative  American market.
His pens quickly wrote a new household word -- Bic -- into existence and  today the group sells 15 million pens a day in 160 countries. In 1993, the  multinational company he had founded showed a turnover of six billion francs  (more than one billion dollars).
He had expanded into lingerie, blossomed in perfume and in 1975, Bic  launched its disposable razor line, defying the heavy competition that already  had a firm hold on the market. In 1983, he took control of the pencil firm  Conte.
Known as an "ideas machine," Bich seemed in the 1980s and 1990s to have  lost something of his golden touch and run out of ideas. His fashion and  perfume interests overstretched the business and DIM, the tights manufacturer  was sold off to the US firm Sara Lees.
However, its core businesses remain solid and despite its entry into the  stockmarket in 1972, the family retained its hold over more than a third of  the firms quoted capital. Before his death, four out of the five board members  were also family members.
The father of 11 children, from both in and out of wedlock, the baron was  still thinking after retirement age about the future of his business.
"He asked me in January 1992 to be his successor," his 48-year-old son  Bruno said. "He asked me if I had thought of my own successor. I said yes and  he agreed with my choice."
