The survival of the Earth's  largest mammals is once again before the International Whaling Commission,  which will decide this week whether to maintain an eight-year-old moratorium  on whale hunting.
The commission, which meets here from Monday to Friday, will also consider  a French proposal, first made in 1992, to create a sanctuary for whales in the  Antarctic by banning whale hunting below a latitude of 40 degrees south.
The whaling commission, formed in 1946 to regulate whale hunting and which  now has 40 member countries, is sharply divided on both issues with Japan and  Norway leading the opposition to the moratorium.
Japan wants the commission to lift the ban on hunting small Minke whales,  arguing that eating whale meat is integral to Japanese culture, according to a  Japanese spokesman. There are an estimated 750,000 minke whales in the world.
Japan and Norway are the only member countries that continue to hunt  whales despite the moratorium, officially for scientific reasons.
According to the environmentalist group Greenpeace, some 14,000 whales  have been killed for commercial reasons since 1986, when the moratorium was  first declared.
Cassandra Philipps, of the World Wildlife Fund, says whale hunting for  scientific reasons is a loophole in the moratorium that Japan and Norway have  used as cover for commercial whaling.
In 1993, whalers from the two countries killed 526 whales, she said.
Environmental groups have mobilized for the meeting, organizing  demonstrations and information campaigns to exert pressure for a continued  moratorium on delegates to the meeting.
Greenpeace charged Thurday at a news conference that Japan had "bought"  the votes of small Caribbean countries, such as Grenada, Dominica, St. Lucia,  St Vincent, as well as the Solomon Islands in the southwest Pacific.
To be adopted, a resolution must have at least a three-to-one majority.  About 30 countries are expected to attend the Puerto Valarta meeting.
If Japan has the support of five countries, supporters of a moratorium and  an Antarctic sanctuary must line up 18 votes, which they are still far from  achieving as several countries have yet to take a public position.
Ten countries have endorsed the French position, which calls for  maintaining the moratorium and creating a sanctuary in the Antarctic for 50  years. Seven of nine known species of great whales annually migrate to the  Antarctic to feed.
Mexico's President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, whose country holds the  presidency of the International Whaling Commission, expressed support Thursday  for the sanctuary initiative and a continued moratorium.
Japan and Norway are unlikely to simply break away from the commission and  continue to hunt if their position is rejected and the moratorium is  continued, Phillips said.
But if they did, she added, they would immediately be targeted by a vast  campaign by environmentalists around the world, something neither country  appears to want, especially at a time when Japan aspires to a seat on the UN  Security Council and Norway is applying for admission to the European  Community.
