One soldier was killed and two others were wounded  in renewed fighting between Abkhazian and Georgian forces, the Abkhazian  defence ministry said Friday.
Skirmishes broke out Thursday around the hydro-electric power plant on the  Inguri river, marking the border between separatist Abkhazia and Georgia,  after around 60 Georgians crossed into Abkhazian territory, the ministry said,  cited by ITAR-TASS news-agency.
In Tbilisi, the Georgian defence ministry denied Abkhazian claims that its  forces had launched an attack, slammed the Abkhazian side for spreading false  information and accused the Abkhazians of wanting to "destroy" a peace accord  signed on May 14 in Moscow.
Abkhazian separatists declared the northwest Georgian region independent  in July 1992, sparking an assault by government forces.
After 13 months of fighting which have left more than 3,000 people dead,  the separatists routed Georgian troops and chased them from the regional  capital Sukhumi.
An estimated 250,000 Georgian civilians fled the embattled region after  the fall of Sukhumi.
The Georgian defence ministry said Friday that Abkhazian forces shelled  the town of Zugdidi, on the Georgian side of the Inguri river, Thursday but  there were no reports of casualties.
Abkhazian "Defence Minister" Sultan Sosnaliev told Interfax news agency  the "authors of the confrontation" were attempting to violate the accord  signed last week in Moscow to end the Abkhazian conflict.
However, a western diplomat in the Georgian capital Tbilisi claimed such  skirmishes would not affect the May 14 peace agreement, which will see the  deployment of a Commonwealth of Independent States peacekeeping force and  United Nations observers.
The peacekeeping force will police a 12 kilometer wide security zone on  both sides of the Inguri River.
The diplomat said many small attacks were carried out by Georgian  irregular forces not controlled by the government. "These will stop once there  are Russian troops on the ground," he said.
