The death rate from cancer and other diseases has  shot up around the Aral Sea in the last 30 years since cotton-growing started  to dry out the giant inland waterway, experts have warned here.
Salt content has tripled in the sea, situated between the former Soviet  central Asian republics of Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, according to studies  quoted at conferences held recently in the Uzbek capital Tashkent.
As a result, infant mortality among the four million people living around  the sea has reached 60 per thousand births, compared to the western European  average of less than 10, and respiratory problems of all kinds are increasing.
Typhoid and hepatitis cases have increased by a factor of 30 since 1960  and a study carrried out in 1990 showed that the number of cancerous tumours  was three times the norm elsewhere in Kazakhstan.
Tuberculosis is endemic and serious skin deases affect tens of thousands  of people, studies showed. In addition, hospitals are ill equipped to cope  with the situation, with only a tenth of them supplied with running water.
At least the conferences -- one sponsored by the North Atlantic Treaty  Organisation's scientific service, the other by the UN educational forum  UNESCO -- show signs of concern by the regional authorities, whom western  experts have long accused of apathy.
"The Aral Sea is becoming the obsession of humanitarian aid groups,".  commented one European expert based in Tashkent. "The Uzbek and Kazakh  governments have done nothing about research, while some 300 international  missions have followed each other over the last few years."
The problems started in 1960 when the Soviet authorities imposed mass  cotton cultivation -- a thirsty crop which dried up the deltas of the two  rivers feeding the Aral, the Amou Daria and Syr Daria.
Even now, 90 percent of the region's water goes to cotton monoculture,  according to a report published by the Uzbek authorities. The massive use of  chemical pesticides makes things even worse.
The Aral was once the world's fourth biggest inland sea.
But now its old intake of 108 cubic kilometres (65 miles) of water per  year has dried to a trickle of no more than 10 cubic kilometres, cutting its  volume by three-quarters and its surface by a half within 30 years.
"A distance of 110 kilometres (67 miles) separates the old shore from  current water banks, drying up land equal to the three Baltic states," said  one report by the Kazakh Ministry of Health.
So far, the solutions being proposed "are not serious," the European expert  said. One proposal, for example, involved building a canal 500 kilometres (300  miles) long, linking the Aral to the Caspian Sea, while another involves  diverting Siberian rivers.
"You need a commercial motivation to launch projects on this scale," the  western expert said, giving the Suez Canal as an example.
