President Saddam Hussein has tightened his grip on  Iraq's embargo-battered economy and hinted at more repression by taking over  the prime minister's job, experts in the Middle East said Monday.
The ruling Revolutionary Command Council (RCC) said as it sacked Prime  Minister Ahmad al-Khodair on Sunday that it had decided "for economic reasons,  to relieve the government of its duties."
"Taking into account the circumstances created by the unjust international  embargo and the need to accord exceptional importance to economic affairs and  the everyday life of the population, the RCC has decided to confer the duties  of prime minister straight to President Saddam Hussein."
Experts on the Iraqi economy said the move to centralize was a prelude to  more repression in the face of increased public complaints about the dire  economic situation.
Iraq's currency, the dinar, has collapsed since its invasion of Kuwait on  August 2, 1990, which prompted the United Nations Security Council to impose  economic sanctions on Baghdad.
With the dollar close to 500 Iraqi dinars, the currency is worth 1,600  times less than its official rate of 3.2 dollars for one dinar.
Iraqis who earn an average monthly salary of 750 dinars can barely afford  the cost of two kilograms (four and a half pounds) of chicken.
The dinar strengthened slightly on Monday at 460 to the dollar, compared  to 480 to the dollar the day before.
With the embargo unlikely to be lifted or even eased for another year at  the earliest, "the outlook for Iraq's already anaemic economy is bad and can  only lead to complaints and repression," an economist said.
He said Saddam had "had to take the prime minister's job whose occupants  had complained of being sidelined by family members acting as super ministers."
More than half of the decisions have had to be approved by Industry  Minister Hussein Kamel Hassan, the president's son-in-law who also runs the  powerful Office of Military Industrialization.
The government is highly "centralized as it was during the Gulf War" in  which US-led forces drove Iraqi troops from Kuwait in February 1991, the  expert said.
Saddam was also prime minister during the war.
Another expert on Iraq said the United States, which insists on maintaining  the economic embargo until Saddam is overthrown, "fails to realize that this  kind of regime thrives on foreign hostility and that economic pressure will  only make it resort to more repression."
While oil revenues stood at 16 billion dollars in 1989, Iraq today brings  in no more than 700 million dollars from the little it is able to export every  year.
The cost alone of supplying subsidized goods to Iraqis amounts to 1.6  billion dollars a year, experts said.
On Saturday, the Babel newspaper, run by Saddam's son Uday, criticized  government efforts to meet the country's economic needs after the embargo was  renewed on May 18.
Baghdad, which argues it has met UN resolutions imposed since the invasion  of Kuwait, has pleaded in vain for even a partial lifting of the embargo.
Apart from the change at the helm, the new cabinet also features three  deputy prime ministers instead of just one in the outgoing government.
All but one of the outgoing ministers have been kept on in their jobs,  including Khodair in the finance portfolio.
The only change was in agriculture, which went to newcomer Karim Hassan  Rida. He replaces Beshir Aluan Humadi, who was sacked without explanation last  Wednesday.
The cabinet consists of 25 ministers including the three deputy premiers,  two more than Khodair's previous cabinet, which took office on November 5 last  year.
Tareq Aziz, in charge of Iraq's relations with the United Nations, stays  on as deputy premier, and is joined by Taha Yassin Ramadan and Mohammad Hamza  al-Zubaidi.
