Government troops fought off a rebel UNITA attack  on an air base in eastern Angola, but were beaten back by separatist forces in  the north, military and separatist sources said Friday.
The military high command said government soldiers killed 19 rebels of the  National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA) and seized arms  and ammunition when they attacked the air force base at Saurimo on Thursday.
The army also took the small town of Ebo, in Kwanza-Sul province, 492  kilometres (305 miles) west of here, from UNITA on Tuesday, official radio  said Friday in a separate announcement.
In the north, however, the separatist Cabinda Enclave Liberation Front-FAC  (FLEC-FAC) faction announced that it this week repelled a government offensive  against its stronghold at Nekuto, some 125 kilometres (78 miles) northeast of  Cabinda town.
The separatists said several villagers were killed by shellfire in the  fighting, which took place Monday on a stretch of road between Buco-Zau and  Nekuto, which neither side fully controls.
In another development, Angola's Minister of Social Communication,  Hendrick Vaal Neto, accused the Cabinda province governor, Augusto Thomas, of  complicity with FLEC-FAC in allowing the faction to set up a radio station in  the enclave.
Informed sources Friday said that Neto charged that Thomas had accepted a  written invitation from FLEC-FAC leader Nzita Tiago to go to Nekuto to attend  the inauguration of the radio station.
The Angolan civil war between the Luanda government and UNITA resumed  after the rebels in September 1992 lost UN-supervised general elections held  under the terms of a May 1991 peace pact to end 16 years of fighting after  independence from Portugal.
A latest round of UN-mediated peace talks has been under way, on and off,  for some six months in the Zambian capital Lusaka, but has run aground on a  number of issues.
Separatist movements are waging a separate battle for autonomy or even  full-fledged independence for oil-rich Cabinda, another former Portuguese  territory which lies to the north of Angola between a strip of Congo and  Zairean territory.
In a separate development, President Jose Eduardo dos Santos personally  intervened to prevent Prime Minister Marcolino Moco from sacking the  editor-in-chief, general manager and administrative director of the only  Angolan daily newspaper, the Jornal de Angola.
Moco was angry with the three over an interview the paper published on May  12 with an Angolan economist, Jose Manuel Carqueiro, who strongly criticised  successive devaluations of the currency, the new kwanza, and said the  government's monetary policies would not stabilise the economy.
He called for the sacking of the three -- Manuel Dionisio, Victor Silva  and Fernando Cunha -- but Dos Santos prevented the move. A week ago, Silva  went on television to complain that the paper was being subjected to "every  kind of pressure" from the government and political, religious and other  organisations.
