Two out of three Germans consider it  positive that Germany lost World War II and believe Nazi thinking was "wrong  and bad", but one in four regards Nazi ideas as having been "not so bad".
These are among the findings of a wide-ranging survey of the opinions of  1,114 citizens from western and eastern Germany questioned May 16 and May 19  by the FORSA institute on behalf of the weekly publication Die Woche.
Fifty years after the Allied D-Day landings in Normandy which heralded the  Nazi defeat, 64 percent found that defeat positive and 69 percent regarded the  capitulation of the Third Reich as a liberation.
Sixty-four percent of those questioned held that Nazi ideas were "wrong  and bad", but 24 percent found the ideas had been "not so bad", the survey  found. Thirteen percent saw the Nazi capitulation as a defeat.
Sixty-seven percent of those asked said they would not have wanted to live  in Germany if Hitler had won the war.
Fifty-six percent were convinced that Germany had sought war and thus bore  the responsibility for it, and in eastern Germany, 67 percent of those asked  regarded Germany as principally responsible for World War II.
Forty-eight percent believed that the Germans of that time had willingly  given their support to the Nazi state, while 37 percent regarded the German  people as the victims of the Nazis.
While 15 percent regarded Nazi crimes as the work of a small clique, 76  percent said such crimes were only made possible with the involvement of  bourgeois society and the bureaucracy.
Neo-Nazi propaganda aimed at denying or minimising the Nazis'  extermination of the Jews found very little echo -- only among three percent  of those questioned, while 91 percent believed there had indeed been such mass  murder.
Despite economic problems, asked if Germany today again "needs a strong  man as leader", 77 percent answered no and 15 percent yes.
But 76 percent did not believe that those who were children or not born  yet in 1945 carried any responsibility for Nazi crimes.
Fifty-three percent were also in favour of "turning the page" on the Nazi  times, while 41 percent were against such an attitude.
Die Woche said it was the first major opinion survey of Germans' attitudes  towards their history since the reunification of the country in 1990.
