The first compensation payments for victims of the  Gulf War will be made within the next two weeks, an official said here  Thursday, adding that the initial payout will total around three million  dollars.
The money, from Iraqi funds frozen abroad, will be paid out mostly to  citizens of Kuwait, Jordan, Britain, France, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and the  United States.
Meanwhile Kuwait announced here a large increase in the estimate of the  losses it sustained as a result of the War -- up from 100 billion dollars  previously to 170 billion dollars.
Carlos Alzamorra, secretary of the UN-sponsored compensation commission,  said the first compensation payments, averaging 2,500 to 3,000 dollars per  person, would be made to those injured or having lost relatives during the  course of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August 1990.
Another 4,000 people, among the priority cases, are expected to receive  compensation payments by the end of the year.
The cases of some 50,000 people claiming compensation because of being  forced out of Kuwait or Iraq during the conflict will be examined in  September, when the first of some 450,000 claims for material losses of less  than 100,000 dollars will also be assessed.
The commission, however, only has some 150 million dollars to deal with  the main body of claims.
Meanwhile a senior Kuwaiti official here said the Gulf War had cost the  country 170 billion dollars -- significantly more than previous estimates,  based on lost oil revenues.
"Kuwait have lost in seven months money that it makes 20 years to collect.  Really we are 20 years back in term of our assets," said Abdulrahman Al-Houty,  Kuwait's senior official dealing with Iraqi compensation.
The figure compares with about 100 billion given as the sum which Kuwait  has been asking as reparations through the Geneva commission.
Al-Houty said the extra 70 billion dollars takes into account Kuwait's  participation in the international Desert Storm operation to drive Iraqi  troops out of Kuwait, as well compensation for such losses as students having  to give up their studies to join in the war effort.
He added that the announcement of the first compensation payments was an  "historic decision ... This is a message to Iraq that by one way or another  they will have to comply with international rules," he said.
