Japan's "Big Four" securities houses, benefitting  from a recovery in commission revenue, announced their best earnings figures  in three years Wednesday and forecast further improvements in the year ahead.
But the pre-tax earnings posted by Nomura Securities Co. Ltd., Daiwa  Securities Co. Ltd., Nikko Securities Co. Ltd. and Yamaichi Securities Co.  Ltd. were still down sharply from the record earnings at the turn of the  decade.
"Despite slowdowns in individual consumption and capital investment, the  stockmarket was relatively firm throughout the year with increased turnover.  But sentiment was not dramatic," market leader Nomura said.
A major factor behind the earnings recovery was the boost to commissions  which accompanied a rebound in equity trading. Buoyed by heavy foreign buying,  average turnover on the Tokyo Stock Exchange soared to 390 billion yen (3.75  billion dollars) a day, up from from 140 billion yen a year earlier.
Other positive factors were increased revenue from underwiting, which  accompanied the first public share offerings in four years, and a rally in the  Japanese government bond market for most of the year. Revenue from investment  trusts was meanwhile buoyed by booming markets elswhere in Asia.
Nomura posted pre-tax earnings of 50.7 billion yen, up sharply from 2.38  billion yen a year earlier. The country's biggest securities company said  operating revenue climbed 16 percent to 399 billion yen in the same period.
The company forecast a further increase in earnings to 90 billion yen in  the current year with revenue climbing to 430 billion yen.
Daiwa announced a profit of 52 billion yen, reversing a loss of 7.27  billion yen a year earlier and displacing Nomura as the country's most  profitable stockbroker. Operating revenue rebounded 20 percent to 297 billion  yen.
The company forecast improved earnings of 60 billion yen for this year  with sales increasing marginally to 300 billion yen.
Nikko posted a profit of 35 billion yen, up sharply from 2.5 billion yen a  year earlier. Operating income rebounded 21 percent to 279 billion yen.
The company also forecast a higher profit of 50 billion yen for the current  year with operating revenue climbing to 290 billion yen.
Yamaichi announced a profit of 17.9 billion yen, reversing two years of  losses including its 37.4 billion yen loss a year earlier. Operating revenue  climbed 25 percent to 236 billion yen.
The company forecast higher earnings to 25 billion yen for this year with  revenue climbing to 245 billion yen. Yamaichi also halved its consolidated  pre-tax forecast for the year just ended from 22 billion yen to 11 billion  yen. Group revenue was projected at 280 billion yen, down from 325 billion yen.
Five second-tier securities companies also announced Wednesday a return to  the black for the same period, reversing steep losses the previous year.
Kokusai Securities Co. Ltd., an affiliate of Nomura, posted the biggest  profit of nine billion yen in a sharp turnaround from its 17.4 billion yen  loss a year earlier. Wako Securities Co. Ltd., New Japan Securities Co. Ltd.,  Okasan Securities Co. Ltd. and Tokyo Securities Co. Ltd. also returned to the  black.
But most of the second-tier companies continued to suffer losses. Kankaku  Securities Co. Ltd., an affiliate of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd., suffered the  biggest loss of 78.6 billion yen -- 54 percent greater than its previous loss.
