Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams on Tuesday promised a  "definitive response" once the British government provided answers to his  demands for clarification of the Anglo-Irish joint peace declaration.
A list of demands by the Irish Republican Army's (IRA) political wing for  clarification of the five-month-old peace document was relayed to London last  week by Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds.
Reynolds had said he hoped for an early response from London to the  demands in order to move the Ulster peace process forward.
The December 15 joint declaration had offered Sinn Fein a full place in  peace negotiations on condition that the IRA renounce violence for at least  three months.
But Sinn Fein has neither accepted nor rejected the document, asking only  for clarification, which Britain has thus far declined.
Adams said Tuesday the Sinn Fein executive would meet to consider  Britain's explanation of the points it had raised as soon as it was received.
"Depending on the quality of the answers, we may need to convene a meeting  of our wider membership," he said in an Irish radio interview.
"But we will give a definitive answer."
He said that if Sinn Fein's assessment concluded the British response was  inadequate, "we will have to point out what we think is wrong with it, and  then seek to move to get agreement on the positive aspects."
He termed the joint declaration, the so-called Downing Street declaration,  "a very significant stage in a peace process," but added, "it is not suggested  by its authors that it is a solution."
"We are not involved in this as a formality," Adams said. "All of us  require clarity from the British government about its intentions in our  country."
Asked whether the sectarian killings would continue if the British reply  proved inadequate, Adams said that "is a matter for those who are engaged in  killings."
Ulster police meanwhile were still questioning some 20 persons arrested  Monday in a swoop on Protestant loyalist quarters in Belfast. Among those  arrested was said to have been a key figure in a Protestant militia.
