A battle raged Saturday between rival army units in  the strategic region of Daleh as hopes faded for Arab League mediators to  secure a ceasefire in Yemen's civil war.
The north, rejecting a southern ceasefire plan, said troops loyal to  President Ali Abdallah Saleh also captured the town of Al-Musaymir, northwest  of the south's stronghold of Aden.
The south had suffered "heavy losses."
In Daleh, 90 kilometres (55 miles) down the road from the port city,  northern forces were mopping up the last pockets of resistance and making  further advances, Sanaa said.
Southern military officials said their warplanes were mounting raid after  raid on the Daleh region, where correspondents saw seven northern soldiers  dead on the side of the road, just five kilometres (three miles) from the  village.
On Friday, the mountain village itself was almost deserted apart from  southern soldiers, they said. Hundreds of residents have fled to Aden.
The two sides have not issued a casualty toll since the war erupted on May  5, although the north said Monday that 74 of its troops had been killed and  more than 200 wounded. A Scud missile Wednesday on Sanaa claimed 25 more lives.
Clashes were also taking place in the Abyan region, east of Aden, but  fighting had eased in Kharaz, on the coast 120 kilometres (75 miles) to the  west of the city.
The south has said the war between Saleh's troops and the forces of Vice  President Ali Salem al-Baid, was being waged on five fronts.
On the diplomatic front, an Arab League delegation has been here since  Thursday waiting to see the president and deliver a call from the League's  secretary general, Esmat Abdel Meguid, for an immediate ceasefire.
A northern spokesman in Sanaa said the meeting was finally likely to take  place on Saturday.
But a source at the organisation's Cairo headquarters said the League was  not expected to make any headway because both the south and north had  toughened their positions.
The ruler of Bahrain, Emir Issa ibn Salman al-Khalifa, Saturday joined the  ceasefire calls and urged Yemen's rival leaders "to allow reason to prevail."
The south put forward a seven-point ceasefire plan on Friday, calling for  the creation of a national unity government, but it was swiftly rejected by  the north as "nothing new."
Sanaa demands the surrender of southern leaders, accusing them of seeking  partition, four years after Yemen was unified.
A spokesman in Sanaa told AFP the north demanded the surrender of the "war  criminal" Baid and "all those responsible for the war, so that they can be  judged for war crimes."
Baid's Yemen Socialist Party (YSP) proposed the two armies should separate  and be "withdrawn to the positions they held before the war."
The YSP plan also called for prisoner releases, for the rights of  political parties to be recognised and that "the lives, goods and rights of  citizens be protected."
In the latest evacuation of foreigners, more than 200 nationals of the  former Soviet Union arrived Saturday in Moscow on a flight out of Moscow, the  Russian news agency ITAR-TASS said.
The Philippines foreign ministry said at least 619 Filipinos, including 40  children and six pregnant women, were still waiting evacuation from Yemen.
