Rwandan rebels sealed the road from the embattled  capital Kigali to Gitarama, where the government fled last month as ethnic  carnage engulfed the country, a UN official said Monday.
The army denied that their foes had seized control of a stretch of the  road from Kigali to Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25 miles) to the southwest.
But Abdul Kabia, executive director of the UN Assistance Mission in  Rwanda, said the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) had cut the road as they  tightened their grip on Kigali, which they have sealed off on three sides.
Kabia said government forces now controlled only the western part of  Kigali and the rebels were trying to sever their supply lines.
The RPF, dominated by the minority Tutsi tribe that has borne the brunt of  six weeks of bloodletting in which 200,000 people have been butchered, claimed  responsibility Monday for shooting at an army-escorted convoy carrying former  French humanitarian minister Bernard Kouchner on a mercy mission.
Kouchner and UN officials accompanying him had to dive into a ditch for  cover Sunday when a hail of bullets rained down on them as they drove back to  Kigali from a meeting with the government in Gitarama.
In a radio broadcast, the rebels said government soldiers and vehicles had  been part of the convoy, and accused the army of looting UN vehicles and using  them to attack its positions.
The rebels said they had warned the UN that they had captured part of the  road before Kouchner's convoy set out.
Kouchner left Rwanda on Monday after spending five days trying to persuade  both sides to allow civilians trapped in the capital and still being massacred  by death squads to leave via "humanitarian safe corridors" which he wants the  army and rebels to keep free from fighting.
Kouchner was still trying to secure an agreement to begin evacuating  civilians Monday, but UN sources said his mission could still produce results.
Sporadic firefights broke out in different areas of Kigali on Monday as  rain lashed the surrounding hills, once green with banana trees but now brown  and barren, stripped by hungry displaced people.
It was a relatively quiet day after 10 days of fierce artillery duels,  said UN spokesman Moctar Gueye, who was slightly hurt when bullet fragments  struck his face during the attack on Kouchner's convoy.
"Everyone's waiting," Gueye said.
The UN has protested to the rebels over the shooting, and has also  complained to the army over its failure "to ensure the security" of Kouchner.
The UN Security Council is preparing to approve Secretary-General Boutros  Boutros-Ghali's call for the UN force in Rwanda to be increased to 5,500,  according to reports from New York.
The UN withdrew all but 400 of its 2,500 peacekeepers after the April 6  death of president Juvenal Habyarimana plunged Rwanda into an orgy of  bloodshed that has triggered a pitiful exodus of half a million people to  neighbouring countries.
About 320,000 of the refugees endure squalor in a sprawling makeshift camp  just across the Tanzanian border, where thousands of corpses have washed down  the Akagera river.
Tanzania has appealed for international help to cope with the refugee  influx.
French officials said several African countries including Tanzania, Ghana  and Nigeria were willing to contribute troops to a strengthened UN force.
Eleven UN peacekeepers have been killed in the past six weeks in Rwanda,  10 of them Belgian soldiers allegedly murdered by the presidential guard.
Most of the 200,000 Rwandans butchered with machetes or clubbed to death  with wooden stakes were Tutsis or opposition supporters from the majority Hutu  tribe.
