Chinese dissident Chen Ziming, one of the  leading figures during the 1989 pro-democracy movement, was released from  prison Friday to receive medical treatment, the official Xinhua news agency  reported.
Chen's temporary release follows the Chinese government's release of five  Christians from re-education camps, as well as the liberation of two other  dissidents, in an apparent attempt to persuade US President Bill Clinton to  extend China's most-favored-nation (MFN) trade status.
Chen, a 40-year-old economist and publisher of the reformist Economic  Weekly, was sentenced to 13 years in jail in February 1991 for "conspiring to  subvert the government and "counter-revolutionary propaganda and incitement."
Chen "has been released on bail for medical treatment today with the  permission of the Chinese judicial authorities," Xinhua said, in a short  dispatch monitored here that provided no other details.
The five Christians released Friday were identified as Chen Zhuman, Yan  Peizhi, Xu Zhihe, Cui Tai and Zhang Li.
They had been sentenced to re-education in Fujian province, southeastern  China, Shandong in the east and Hebei in the north for having "disturbed  public order and endangering public security by their religious activities,"  the agency said.
The move came a day after Chinese authorities said they had released one  dissident and allowed a second to leave for the United States. But they  arrested a third, sending mixed signals to Washington some three weeks ahead  of Clinton's decision on renewing China's MFN.
Zhang Ruiyu, a Chinese dissident sentenced to four years' jail in 1991,  was released on parole and a dissident intellectual, Yu Haocheng, was given  permission to go to the United States.
But in Shanghai, police arrested Yang Zhou, spokesman of the Chinese  Association for Human Rights.
Yang's arrest was the fifth in a month in Shanghai and confirmed  observers' beliefs that the release of some dissidents would not affect the  repression of others ahead of the fifth anniversary of the June 4 Tiananmen  massacre.
The sentence handed down on Chen was one of the heaviest for any leader of  the 1989 movement which culminated in the Chinese army's bloody supression of  protestors in Tiananmen Square.
Chen, who came from the eastern province of Zhejiang, was director of the  private Beijing Social-Economic Research Institute as well as a contributor to  the Economic Weekly.
During his period of detention in Qincheng prison, Chen had secretly  written a book on the history of China since the launching of reforms by  paramount leader Deng Xiaoping in 1978. The manuscript was smuggled out of the  prison and published in Hong Kong.
Chen was eighth on the "most-wanted criminals" list issued by the public  security ministry in 1989. The six people who headed the list either managed  to flee China or were allowed to leave by the authorities, such as  astrophysicist Fang Lizhi and his wife Li Shuxian.
