Marine microbes are threatening public health and  the fishing industry along China's eastern coast, a senior government marine  biologist warned here.
Hong Junchao, director of the Shanghai branch of the National Bureau of  Oceanography, said "red tide" -- microbes that damage marine habitats and  infect seafood -- appeared nine times last year along the eastern seabord,  severely disrupting the fishing industry.
Prompt government action is required to prevent the incidence of red tide  multiplying this year, Hong was quoted as saying in the latest issue of the  Shanghai Science and Technology News.
The red tide depletes oxygen in marine habitats, killing massive  populations of fish, shrimp and other shellfish.
China could not afford the devastating effect of red tide, the newspaper  said, citing the 241 billion yen lost by Japan's fishing industry to the  scourge between 1966 and 1980.
Hong said the red tide, which also contains toxic bacteria and heavy  metals, had reached the mouth of the Yangtze River where present levels of  nitrogen and phospherous were 80 to 100 times the acceptable level.
Scientists have not completely determined the causes of red tide, Hong  said, although the condition was known to be aggravated by the dumping of  human and industrial waste.
Red tide was the cause of a major outbreak of hepatatis A in 1988 that  crippled Shanghai's 10,500 hectares (25,900 acres) of coastal aquaculture,  hurt the tourist industry and infected an estimated 30 percent of the city's  residents.
That epidemic resulted in the banning of certain shellfish, including the  hairy clam -- a delicacy savoured by Chinese along the southeastern seaboard.  Selling the illegal clams in Shanghai can result in a heavy fine and  confiscation of property.
While the red tide has not yet reached critical levels, Hong urged the  government to lessen the potential threat to public health and the aquaculture  industry by establishing red tide monitoring teams, drawing up emergency plans  and controlling the dumping of industrial waste.
