Four men armed with submachineguns and a grenade  took about 30 people including 10 schoolchildren hostage Thursday in a bus in  southern Russia and demanded 10 million dollars in ransom and a getaway  helicopter, officials said.
The gunmen hijacked the bus near the town of Mineralnoye Vody in the  afternoon as it travelled from the North Ossetian city of Vladikavkaz en route  to the southern Russian city of Stavropol.
About 800 policemen and security officers were dispatched to the site of  the hostage-taking and began negotiations with the gunmen, Stavropol police  chief General Ivan Tetereviatnikov told AFP.
The hostage-takers demanded that a helicopter be made available to them  and that they be given four additional submachine guns, four flak jackets, a  grenade-launcher, a night-vision telescope and drugs, a spokesman for the  emergencies ministry said.
The hostage-taking was the fourth to occur in the region in the past five  years, Tetereviatnikov said.
Russia's northern Caucasus region, an economically poor area, has  witnessed in the past years a flareup in ethnic tension. Firearms and military  weapons are readily available in the area.
The police chief said that a negotiating team that included the president  of the autonomous Russian republic of North Ossetia, Askarbek Galazov, told  the gunmen that no harm would come to them if they released the hostages.
Interfax reported that the gunmen were threatening to kill one of the  passengers within the hour if their demands were not met but Tetereviatnikov  denied that any ultimatum had been given.
Tetereviatnikov said the two sides were communicating by notes and that  the bus had been immobilised not far from the airport of Mineralnoye Vody.
A man and a woman carried the written messages to authorities, a duty  officer at the Mineralnoye Vody airport was quoted by ITAR-TASS as saying,  adding that "the terrorists were sure that they would return because their  kids remained in the bus."
Eight men were taken off the bus immediately after the four men seized  control of the vehicle, Interfax said.
The last hostage drama in Russia occured in December, when 15  schoolchildren were abducted in the southern Russian city of  Rostov-on-the-Don.
The four captors obtained a helicopter and led authorities on a four-day  airborne pursuit through the Caucasus before releasing their hostages one by  one in return for 10 million dollars in ransom, most of which was recovered.
Tetereviatnikov said their was no known link between the previous  hostage-taking in Rostov and the latest incident.
