World Cup organizers are trumpeting a likely  sell-out of all 52 matches in the 1994 Finals, but it remains to be seen if  football can ignite the passions of America's over-stimulated sports fans.
From the opening match on June 17, which would signal the sporting event  of a lifetime in most countries, the Cup will be competing with entrenched US  sports.
The National Basketball Association championship finals will be reaching  their peak, and the US Open golf championship will be underway.
US television network officials were so unwilling to tamper with their  tried-and-true golf coverage that the United States will launch their Cup bid  with an 11:30 a.m. kickoff against Swtizerland on June 18.
The performance of the US side in that game may be the decisive factor in  whether the World Cup captures the imagination of American spectators.
As US manager Bora Milutinovic put it: "The only thing Americans care  about is being first."
World Cup USA chairman Alan Rothenberg said much the same.
"As an organizing committee, you set the table and see who sits down to  the meal," he said. "A lot simply depends on what happens out on the field,  which is one thing we have no control over.
"A lot probably relies on what happens when the US play Switzerland in the  Silverdome on that first Saturday on ABC.
"A lot of people are going to be curious to see it -- the first ABC game,  the grass under the dome. If we do well, I think we could start to catch  lightning in a bottle."
But it's an uphill battle. A February Harris Poll of 1,252 adults showed  the number of of people who knew the Cup would be played in the United States  was 20 percent.
The number of people very interested in watching a live World Cup match  was 15 percent, and the number of people who would be very interested in  watching  a match on television was 17 percent.
Those numbers were an improvement on a similar poll conducted last autumn.
A poll conducted by the Sports Marketing Group of Dallas, Texas, in late  1992 and early 1993, showed a sample of 1,479 people age 12 and older ranked  football behind log rolling and target shooting as a spectator sport that they  "love" or "like a lot".
