Authorities investigating a race-riot  in this east German city, which sparked accusations of police laxity, Thursday  turned their attention to the role of foreigners in the violence.
Magdeburg prosecutor Rudolf Jaspers said that according to some witnesses,  foreigners joined in the city centre violence and attacked Germans who had  nothing to do with the events.
That no doubt happened to a 24-year-old man who was seriously wounded and  still in a coma Thursday, Jaspers said. When foreigners attacked him, he cried  in vain he had nothing to do with it all, Jaspers quoted witnesses as saying.
The riot on May 12, a public holiday, began when a mob of some 50 neo-Nazi  skinhead youths gave chase to a group of five Africans through the streets.  Other drunken youths joined in the chase.
The Africans, who say that the police stood by watching as the skinheads  tried to hunt them down, took shelter in a cafe frequented by Turks, who  confronted the attackers with knives, according to witnesses.
Five people, all Germans, were wounded.
Jaspers said the investigation was now taking on a "new aspect" and that  he was seeking to find out to what extent foreigners were involved in the  Ascension Day violence.
So far seven German youths have been charged for the attack. Six were  arrested, of which five are being held and one was released on bail Thursday.  Another is on the run.
The prosecuting authorities had identifed 30 suspects, Jaspers said, but  he did not expect charges against any others in the next few days.
Political leaders and commentators have accused the police and legal  authorities of failing to act with due severity during and immediately after  the skinhead chase.
The police were said to have intervened too late and with insufficient  numbers, and have also been criticised for releasing the 49 people they  initially arrested.
Der Speigel magazine to be published this weekend said the Magdeburg  police had neglected standing orders in force since the beginning of the year  requiring them to be on the alert for extreme-right and racist violence.
A Saxony-Anhalt region official of the opposition Social Democrats, Manfred  Puechel, said that the regional interior ministry had only made these orders  known Monday. A ministry spokesman refused to comment.
Some 700 people staged a silent protest march Thursday evening through  Magdeburg called by the town's religious communities. Several hundred had  already demonstrated Saturday and Monday.
Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger admitted in parliament  Wednesday that the police had made "mistakes," and said they could have  contained the violence had they intervened more rapidly.
But she believed existing legislation was sufficient to cope with such  events and called for those laws to be applied strictly.
Konrad Weiss of the opposition Alliance 90-Greens coalition said that  passers-by who had tried to intervene to stop the neo-fascists appeared to  have been hampered by police.
