Russia will pursue its economic reforms and adopt  the most resolute measures to limit the budget deficit and the emission of  credits, Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin in a contribution to The  Financial Times published Monday.
"Russia has only one path to tread - that of reform, and it will not  depart from it," the premier said, adding that Russia was "now living through  the trough of the economic crisis."
"In the next few months we can make a break from the basic negative  tendencies which have held back our developpment in the past two or three  years."
He said he was certain that Russia would make the break.
Russian output plunged 25 percent in the first quarter of 1994 over the  same period last year, according to the premier.
"We must adopt the most resolute measures aiming at limiting the budget  deficit and the emission of credits," he said.
"It is vitally important that every member of the Russian government fully  understands that a strong ruble is the indispensable condition for the revival  of the economy."
He said that the government's common task was "clear: to ensure that the  Russian citizens should know that everything their government does is directed  towards protecting the purchasing power of the ruble."
Chernomyrdin also underlined what he called vast structural disparities  that had accumulated in 70 years of Soviet rule.
"Tackling these problems demands prolonged efforts and huge expense," he  said. But he added that his government could not "sanction mass closures of  our exhausted plants."
Chernomyrdin said that three types of enterprises prevailed in Russia;  those that had already adapted to market conditions, those with the necessary  potential and enterprises that are beyond salvation and should be closed down  in accordance with the law on bankruptcy.
A solution had to be found for the last category with the help of foreign  governments and international agencies so that social problems closely linked  to their closure could be solved.
