Derek Harper of the New York Knicks was suspended  for two games and Chicago's Jo Jo English for one for their parts in a bench  clearing brawl in the National Basketball Association playoffs Friday night.
In addition, Harper was fined 15,000 dollars and English was fined 10,000  dollars. Seven other Knicks and eight other Bulls were fined 2,500 dollars  apiece for leaving their benches.
The fight melee occurred in the second quarter of Chicago's 104-102  victory that narrowed the gap in the best-of-seven second round series to 2-1.
Game four is scheduled for Chicago Stadium on Sunday, and game five is on  Wednesday in New York.
The trouble started when England and Harper shoved each other on the  court. Harper then punched English and threw him t the floor.
The benches emptied and players and coaches piled on top of ech other in  the front row seats. At least three women fans were shoved aside and then  fallen on.
Both Knicks coach Pat Riley and Bulls coach Phil Jackson were knocked down.
Announcing the fines and suspensions, NBA vice president Rod Thorn said:  "There is no place for fighting in the NBA, and when an incident endangers the  welfare of the fans who come out and see our games, we are especially  concerned. These actions will not be tolerated."
Harper's absence will be a big blow for the Knicks, but the three-time  defending champion Bulls have another problem -- a dispute between veteran  Scottie Pippen and Jackson.
Pippen, the mainstay of the Bulls since the departure of Michael Jordan  last autumn, refused to take the court in the closing seconds of Friday  night's game.
Neither Pippen nor Jackson would discuss the incident on Saturday, but  Pippen appeared to be upset that the play called during a time-out with 1.8  seconds left in the game was designed for Toni Kukoc.
Kukoc took the inbound pass and made a 19-foot turnaround shot to give the  Bulls a 104-102 victory.
A loss would have put them within one game of elimination.
The narrow victory came after the Bulls blew a 22-point second-half lead.
bb94
