Firemen brought under control Sunday a blaze  sparked by a huge explosion at a Russian bomb depot which sent potentially  lethal munitions arcing out to a radius of up to 10 kilometres (six miles),  government officials said.
Some of the munitions spewed out from the centre of Saturday's blast at  the isolated depot for Russian Pacific fleet warplanes could still be in  danger of exploding, the Russian ministry for emergency situations said in a  statement cited by the ITAR-TASS agency.
But it was now safe for the 2,500 people evacuated Saturday from villages  in a 30-kilometre (20-mile) radius around the base to return home, the  ministry added.
The blaze was sparked by the explosion at the base around 100 kilometres  (60 miles) northeast of the far-eastern Russian port of Vladivostok.
The blast shook the port itself, according to witnesses in the city cited  by the agency.
No deaths were reported in the blast or the ensuing fire, but six people  were injured by flying glass.
However, some 200 of the depot's 800 transport wagons were destroyed, as  well as part of the railway line leading to the base.
All wooden buildings inside the depot compound, which covers six square  kilometres (2.4 square miles) were gutted, and houses in the surrounding  villages were damaged.
The head of the local council, Yevgeni Nazdratenko, told ITAR-TASS the  explosion was a "great tragedy" for the region.
"It is a sad consequence of our totalitarian past," he told the agency.  "The former Soviet Union was armed to defend its borders, but today this  surplus of weapons is being turned back against Russia."
The emergency situations ministry said there were neither chemical nor  nuclear weapons at the depot.
Overnight rain helped military and civilian fire fighters beat back the  flames at the base, where two armoured vehicles were pressed into service to  help locate the seat of the fire, the agency said.
Officials from the Pacific fleet and a counter-espionnage team were sent  to the site Saturday to determine the cause of the explosion, according to  military officials cited by ITAR-TASS. No details of their investigations had  been released Sunday.
A special team from the defense ministry left Moscow for the scene  Saturday, the emergency situations ministry said.
