Eleven French aid workers detained for over a month  by Bosnian Serbs for alleged arms trafficking were freed and flown out of  Sarajevo Wednesday after payment of 44,000 dollars.
A spokeswoman for the charity group Premiere Urgence (Emergency Aid),  which sent them into Bosnia-Hercegovina, said the 4,000 dollars a head paid by  the organisation was "too small to be considered as a ransom."
Pascale de Lomas said the money was "bail" which allowed the Bosnian Serbs  to "save face."
The organisation's field coordinator, Jacques Ladyson, told AFP that  "until a visit by French ambassador Henry Jacolin, the conditions of our  comrades were very difficult.
"They were poorly fed, moved here and there, and were given mock  executions."
"One evening, they were made to walk around in their underpants, with  their eyes blindfold, for no apparent reason."
The 11 -- 10 men and one woman -- had been held by Bosnian Serbs since  April 8, the day after being stopped at the last Serb checkpoint before  entering Sarajevo and forced to travel to the Serb-held suburb of Ilidza for a  full search.
The Serbs refused to allow the team to remain overnight in their vehicles.
The next morning, when they returned to their convoy, they found Bosnian  Serbs filming ammunition crates, removed from the trucks. The aid workers were  immediately detained and accused of gun-running to the Moslems, which the 11  strenuously denied.
Their Serb captors initially offered to exchange the group for 11 Serb  prisoners held by the Bosnian army, but Premiere Urgence refused.
On May 7, the Serbs said that a trial of the aid workers had been put off  until early June. A day later they extended their month-long detention for  another month.
A spokesman for the UN Protection Force said they were "unconditionally"  handed over to ambassador Jacolin in Lukavica following their release on  Wednesday. The 11 were due at Paris's Villacoublay military airport around  11:00 p.m. (2100 GMT) where they were to be met by Defense Minister Francois  Leotard and Foreign Minister Alain Juppe.
French President Francois Mitterrand expressed "joy" at the release and  praised the courage of all aid workers in Bosnia-Hercegovina.
A communique issued by the French foreign ministry said the release came  after "direct pressure from Paris and (Bosnia) on the main parties concerned."
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe had several contacts with the  authorities of rump Yugoslavia and sent the foreign ministry's general  secretary, Bertrand Dufourq, to Belgrade to negotiate a release.
Jacolin had daily contacts with the group, the statement added.
The foreign ministry said contacts had also been made with France's main  western partners as well as Russia, European Union president Greece, and the  co-chairman of the peace conference on the former Yugoslavia, Lord Owen, and  UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to help end the aid workers' 40-day  ordeal.
France "thanks those who helped," the statement added.
Russian First Deputy Foreign Minister Anatoly Adamishin notably intervened  to ask the Serbs not to hold a trial.
