Rebels and government soldiers battled with small  arms and mortars in Kigali on Friday after the bodies of 88 fresh massacre  victims were discovered in southern Rwanda.
Many of those victims were young girls.
It was unclear who had carried out the slaughter, which adds to a death  toll that has topped 200,000 in little more than a month of ethnic carnage,  said UN spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
"We thought that massacres in the Butare region had stopped, but it seems  they are continuing," Kabia said.
Hutu-led government forces control most of the Butare area, though  fighting with the rebels, mainly from the minority Tutsi tribe, has been  reported nearby.
The boom of artillery shells and the crack of Kalashnikov rifles sent  civilians scurrying for cover in the capital Friday.
Most of the heavy fire apparently came from positions held by the rebel  Rwanda Patriotic Front around the Meridien Hotel, while gunbattles raged  between small groups in various neighbourhoods.
Fighting also continued in the northwestern town of Ruhengeri and in  Bugesera, in the south, Kabia said.
Hutu killing squads embarked on a bloody rampage through Kigali after  president Juvenal Habyarimana, a Hutu, was killed in a suspicious plane crash  on April 6.
The rebels retaliated by sweeping through northern and eastern Rwanda,  seizing control of two-thirds of the small central African highland nation,  and pounding army positions in the capital.
Children and women were clubbed or hacked to death with machetes as  militiamen giggled at their agony, according to witnesses. Many survivors are  children with their feet or hands cut off, and horrifically mutilated women.
Bernard Kouchner, the flamboyant former French humanitarian action  minister and founder of the medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors  Without Borders), met rebel leader Paul Kagame on Friday in the first of what  he said was a series of meetings with Rwandan leaders to assess aid needs.
Kouchner arrived from Uganda by road Thursday in what he said was the  launch of an effort to boost aid operations on his own initiative.
"I'm here wearing my own hat. That's to say none at all," Koucher said.
Hundreds of thousands of Rwandans have fled across the borders to find  themselves in squalid makeshift camps in Tanzania, Burundi or elsewhere.
Up to two million Rwandans have abandoned their homes in terror of being  slaughtered, with 20,000 alone prisoners sheltering in a church, a sports  stadium, a hotel and other locations in their own capital, defenceless against  mortar shells that sometimes slam into their refuges.
UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali is lobbying the Security  Council to reinforce its troops, down to 400 after the UN Assistance Mission  in Rwanda last month evacuated most of its 2,500 soldiers who were supervising  a ceasefire implemented under peace accords signed in August.
Boutros-Ghali has asked for 5,500 troops in Rwanda to establish a neutral  zone around the airport, escort relief convoys and assist displaced people.
The United Nations, still shaken by its failure to enforce peace in  Somalia, is reluctant to embark on an aggressive mission that could embroil  its peacekeepers in clashes with either side, diplomats said.
