Hungary's Socialist Party (MSZP), armed with an  absolute majority in Sunday's general election, now faces weeks of tough  negotiation aimed at finding a coalition partner to avoid resurrecting the  spectre of its formerly omnipotent communist incarnation.
The MSZP, which will have 209 out of 386 seats in the new parliament,  hopes to woo the Alliance of Free Democrats (SZDSZ), which came second in the  poll, despite only taking 18.3 percent in the second round of voting after  managing 23 percent in the first poll.
Faced with the relative slump in its support and with the MSZP basking in  its score of 54.15 percent, SZDSZ leaders, who had earlier favoured a  coalition, now fear that going down that road could place them in a position  of weakness.
Socialist leaders grouped behind party head and former foreign minister   Gyula Horn -- the man who in 1989 gave the order to allow into Hungary  thousands of East Germans fleeing their country, effectively bringing down the  Berlin Wall -- stressed Monday that they still favoured a coalition  government, preferably with the SZDSZ, which garnered 70 parliamentary seats.
SZDSZ party head Ivan Petoe responded to their overtures by saying his  party was "open to coalition negociations with the MSZP," but added that the  Socialist absolute majority meant there was "little room for manoeuvre."
Petoe said his party would make a decision on the issue at its congress  scheduled for Sunday.
The MSZP is to make a final decision on its stance vis-a-vis a coalition  and its choice of prime minister on Saturday. Meanwhile, it has left the door  ajar for negotiations on possible cooperation with the Federation of Young  Democrats (FIDESZ), which ended up as one of the main poll losers, garnering  just 21 seats.
Another coalition scenario, if talks with both the SZDSZ and FIDESZ fail,  could involve the MSZP opening talks "under certain conditions" with one of  the three members of the outgoing conservative-led administration, the  Christian Democratic People's Party (KDNP), according to an anonymous MSZP  source.
The MSZP has, however, ruled out the possibility of entering into a  coalition alliance with either of the two other parties which served in the  ousted government -- the Democratic Forum (MDF), which captured just 34 seats,  and the Independent Smallholders' Party (FKGP). Both are solidly rightwing and  also display nationalist tendancies.
A high-ranking MSZP official conceded, however, that if all the coalition  discussions run into the sand, the Socialists will have no choice but to form  a government on their own.
