Former communists were set to win an absolute  majority in the Hungarian parliament Sunday after four years of conservative  rule, a polling organization said as run-off elections drew to a close.
But political analysts said Hungary's future government would likely be a  coalition between the former communists, who now call themselves the Socialist  Party, and the liberal Alliance of Free Democrats, in order to achieve the  two-thirds majority required to pass major legislation.
The Gallup polling organization predicted that the Socialists, led by  former foreign minister Gyula Horn, would take an absolute majority of between  195 and 213 seats in the 386-member assembly in Hungary's second democratic  election since the fall of communism in 1989.
This would give the Socialists an absolute majority, but not enough for  the two-thirds cushion needed to pass major legislation. Gallup indicated that  the Alliance of Free Democrats would win between 65 and 86 seats.
If the forecast pans out, Hungary would join Poland in shifting back to  the left in what is seen as a backlash against the pain of market-oriented  economic reform. Former communists dominated general elections in Poland in  September of last year.
The former communists in Hungary were looking to consolidate their strong  performance in the first round of voting on May 8, when they captured 57  direct seats in a crushing defeat of the ruling party, the conservative  Democratic Forum, which took only one seat.
The outcome of 259 of a total of 386 seats depended on the second round  vote, with 174 to be decided by simple majority in individual constituencies,  provided participation is at least 25 percent.
The remaining 85 slots will be assigned according to a proportional  distribution scheme.
During the election campaign Horn indicated that he was prepared to form a  ruling coalition with "any democratic force which has not compromised itself  in government over the last four years."
Observers pointed out that such comments could allow for an even broader  coalition, including the Federation of Young Democrats as well.
Democratic Forum, the main force in the outgoing administration, is  predicted to win between 39 and 45 seats, Gallup said, basing its predictions  on first round voting on May 8 and opinion polls conducted since.
The forum, whose leader and premier Jozsef Antall died last December, has  resigned itself to being in opposition in the new administration.
The socialists and the Free Democrats, headed by 43-year-old economist  Gabor Kuncze, are very close on several foreign policy areas, in particular on  their enthusiasm for Hungarian membership of the European Union and closer  links with NATO.
Both parties have cautioned, however, that it would take them around two  years to bring about a marked improvement in Hungarians' standard of living.
Both Horn and Kuncze have indicated willingness to be appointed prime  minister in a coalition government.
Turnout in the second round of voting was unclear. Midmorning Sunday a  figure of 24.7 percent was given. It was thought likely the turnout would  exceed the 25 percent needed for the vote to be valid.
The post-communist election was held in March and April 1990, and resulted  in the Democratic-Forum led coalition.
Polling stations were to close at 7:00 p.m. (1700 GMT) Sunday and early  returns on the basis of exit polls were expected shortly afterwards.
