A blind, 87-year-old incumbent running for  his seventh term and a black politician were vying for the Dominican  presidency Monday as voters went to the polls in elections clouded by crisis  in neighboring Haiti.
Roughly 3.3 million people were eligible to vote, electing the Caribbean  country's next president from a field of five candidates.
But the real contest was between only two candidates: President Joaquin  Balaguer, an old but lucid powerhouse who has dominated Dominican politics for  the past 30 years, and the social democratic leader Jose Francisco Pena Gomez,  57, who aspires to be the country's first black president.
Although personalities and domestic issues were the focus of the campaign,  the crisis in neighbouring Haiti has intruded in the debate.
Both candidates said they opposed any military intervention in Haiti, a  prospect raised by US President Bill Clinton, who has also called for tougher  action to halt the smuggling of embargoed supplies across the  Dominican-Haitian border.
Rumors of a US invasion swept voting stations after polls opened at 6 a.m.  (1000 GMT) and Dominicans began crowding the 10,000 voting tables set up  nationwide. Polls close at 6 p.m. (2200 GMT). Initial returns were expected  before midnight.
Voting was slow and lines were long but no incidents were repored despite  a campaign that at times degenerated into street clashes, which claimed the  lives of 30 people.
Besides a new president, Dominicans will elect a 30-seat senate and a  120-seat chamber of deputies as well as 103 mayors.
Dominicans were faced with a choice between a populist of tireless energy  and spell-binding oratory and a sagacious politician of understated style who  modernized the economy and created an impressive infrastructure of highways  and buildings.
It was expected to be a close race with the most recent polls showing Pena   in the lead with 33 percent to 27 percent for Balaguer.
Balaguer, leader of the Reformist Social Christian Party, was born in 1907  and studied law in Santo Domingo and Paris.
He held diplomatic posts during the dictatorship of Rafael Trujillo, who  was assassinated in 1961 after ruling the Dominican Republic with an iron hand  for 30 years.
Titular president in 1960 under Trujillo, Balaguer was ousted in 1961 --  only to return again and again to the presidency, serving three successive  terms from 1966 to 1978 and two more terms from 1986 to 1994.
He is credited with stabilizing the country politically and controling  inflation, but he has been criticized for basing development on public works  while neglecting social programs.
His multimillion dollar project to build a monumental Columbus Lighthouse  in commemoration of the 500th anniversary of the discovery of America came  under fire as a waste when health services were in crisis and unemployment was  hitting 30 percent.
Businessmen figure prominently among a circle of advisers called "the  palace ring."
Pena has emerged as a serious challenger in a country where 75 percent of  the population is mulato, 15 percent is white and 10 percent black.
Of humble origins, he became involved in politics, inspired by the  revolutionary ideas of the period.
He studied political science in Paris and formed relations with prominent  figures of the Socialist International, something he mentioned repeatedly in  his campaign to persuade votes that as president he could raise foreign aid  and investment.
Pena has been accused of being impulsive and violent, a theme the ruling  party exploited during the campaign, airing videos showing him as an angry  young politician.
The opposition also has sought to play on racist as well as anti-Haitian  sentiment by referring to Pena as the son of Haitians.
The other presidential candiates were Jacobo Majutla of the Independent  Revolutionary Party, the veteran nationalist leader Juan Bosch of the  Dominican Liberation Party, and Roman Catholic priest Paulino Antonio Reinoso  of the Independence Unity and Change Movement.
All political propaganda was halted Saturday when the Central Electoral  Board took control of the radio and television stations.
The Dominican elections is being monitored by some 150 international  observers, including a group sent by the Organization of American States.
