Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh on Saturday  called off a ceasefire and vowed to capture the key city of Aden after the  south declared independence following more than two weeks of civil war.
His southern rival, Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid, announced in a  televised address that he was proclaiming the creation of the Yemeni  Democratic Republic (YDR) as an independent state with its capital in Aden.
The declaration, which came on the eve of the fourth anniversary of the  unification of conservative and tribal North Yemen and the former Marxist  South, was declared as "unlawful" by the president.
Saleh, looking calm and relaxed, told a press conference at the  presidential palace here that southern forces had ignored a three-day truce  declared by the north late Friday to mark the Moslem feast of Al-Adha.
"We already said we were adhering to the ceasefire but the separatist  forces initiated fighting on all war fronts this morning, so fighting is going  on," he said. "There is no ceasefire," in the war which began May 5.
Baid had said the decision to break away was the result of Saleh's  campaign to "destroy the south" and that the union had never become reality,  apart from the joint flag and national anthem.
The independence announcement prompted spontaneous celebratory gunfire  throughout the southern port city of Aden, which was the capital of the former  South Yemen led by Baid.
But Saleh warned that his military forces was "putting a military ring  around Aden" and added: "Our intention was not to enter the city. However,  after the announcement of separation by the south we are obliged to enter the  city at all costs."
He added: "Then the armed forces will continue to pursue the separatists  in Mukallah," a port east of Aden where Baid took refuge earlier this week.
The northerners have been battling to reach Aden all week but had said  they would only blockade the city but not enter it, and promised not to harm  the civilian population of more than 500,000.
"Baid will eventually have to run away to Oman or Saudi Arabia. He will  eventually have to join his separatist colleagues living abroad. In fact, he  has already sent away his family," Saleh said:
He said a number of southern brigades and members of Baid's Yemen  Socialist Party (YSP) had pledged loyalty to the presidency.
Asked about possible support from other Arab countries for Baid, Saleh  said: "Any Arab country or friendly state which may try to sympathise with  this position puts itself in the rank of the enemies of the Yemeni people."
"This would represent a flagrant interference in Yemen's internal  affairs," he said.
Baid's army had lost 80 percent of its equipment since the start of the  conflict. He charged that military hardware was being delivered to the  southerners at Mukallah by two Russian-built Tupolev transport planes and a  ship.
"These aircraft and ships will be considered as the enemy," warned Saleh.
Baid had announced the formation of a 111-member council of national  salvation comprising elected southern deputies, representatives of political  parties and religious figures.
It would choose a presidential council and an interim government, and  multi-party elections would be held within a year.
Baid, whom Saleh sacked as his deputy after the outbreak of war, gave  assurances the new state would respect "political and public freedoms, human  rights and freedom of expression and of the press," and maintain a liberal  economic system.
"Ali Abdallah's a killer!" and "Saleh, a little Saddam!" crowds in Aden  shouted.
Saleh's General People's Congress and Baid's YSP had formed a fragile  governing coalition after April 1993 elections.
A spokesman for the southern forces said 1,500 of Saleh's troops had been  killed Friday in the Kharaz region west of Aden while trying to advance on the  city. The death toll was not confirmed by the north.
