The president of the Schneider SA, one of  France's biggest industrial groups, was charged with fraud and taken into  custody at dawn here on Friday, sending shock waves through the company.
Didier Pineau-Valencienne, 64, was arrested after being quizzed by  investigators for more than 20 hours, having travelled to the Belgian capital  voluntarily Thursday to answer questions.
In Paris, Schneider shares were suspended and later plunged 5.6 percent to  end the day at 390 francs, following the group's announcement that  Pineau-Valencienne had been charged with forgery, using false documents,  fraud, false accounting and breach of confidence.
Schneider, the 16th-biggest French industrial group and the world leader  in industrial electrical installations, expressed shock at the arrest of its  head and denied any wrongdoing.
Pineau-Valencienne's arrest comes as a number of leading French firms face  investigations into their activities. They include companies owned by  flamboyant left-wing deputy Bernard Tapie, Alcatel, three of whose senior  executives are under investigation for price-fixing, and insurance group GMF  over a six billion franc (one billion dollar) fraud.
The charges against Pineau-Valencienne, the result of a complex  investigation in Belgium, relate to a 1992 takeover bid by Schneider for two  Belgian finance companies, Cofimines and Cofibel, Schneider said in Paris.
Minority shareholders in the two Belgian companies challenged the bids,  asserting that the funds to be used in the purchase could be illicit.
But they later withdrew their complaint and the acquisitions were  completed last December -- after Schneider raised its bid three times and  publicly denied allegations that funds from a drug-money laundering operation  were involved.
Sources close to Pineau-Valencienne said he had gone voluntarily to  Brussels on Thursday and had answered questions from financial inspectors from  10:00 a.m. (0700 GMT) until 9:00 p.m.
Their questions had gone far beyond the purchase of the Cofimines and  Cofibel, extending to the names of accountants in second-tier subsidiaries.
He thought that their questioning was over but then had to face questions  from the investigating magistrate from 11:00 p.m. until 7:30 a.m.  (eds:correct), when he was charged and taken into custody.
He had never expected to be held and the decision to arrest him in the  early hours of the morning had occured like an "ambush," these sources said.  But the magistrate had pressed ahead even though the original complaints had  been withdrawn.
Judicial authorities here provided no details of the case beyond stating  that Pineau-Valencienne was being held and listing the charges.
But Schneider said that as a result of a complaint by minority  shareholders, Pineau-Valencienne was accused of having managed the financial  subsidiaries to their detriment.
Rejecting the charges, Schneider said that it had "always acted out of  respect for the interests of all shareholders in these companies, including  when bids for these companies were made in 1992."
Management and staff were "profoundly indignant and stupefied" by the  accusations. The company could not appeal his detention until Wednesday.
Dubbed "Doctor Attila" in the 1970s by his then boss Baron Empain,  Pineau-Valencienne has transformed the company since his arrival in 1981.
In 1982 the group lost 345 million francs from a turnover around 40  billion francs. By 1993 the company had boosted turnover to 56 billion francs  and was recording profits of 405 million francs, having slashed its workforce  by around 35,000 to 91,000 and embarked upon a radical rationalisation  programme.
Empain himself hit the headlines in 1978 after being held 63 days by  kidnappers, who cut off part of one of his fingers to pressure the company  into paying up.
