Washington wants to guard the trade border using international monitors  inside the Dominican Republic, but Dominican President Joaquin Balaguer,  leading in the vote count of last Monday's elections, opposes that idea.
Even the election of his rival, Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, would not  guarantee the embargo would be upheld.
In the face of continued military stubborness, Clinton has not ruled out  using force to restore democracy in the US neighbor in the Caribbean, despite  that option's unpopularity with the American public.
Thursday he talked tough, aiming to show the threat was no bluff. He  listed specific reasons for the United States' "significant interest" in "our  backyard" that would justify possible military intervention.
Among his concerns were the possibility of a massive Haitian refugee wave  flooding the United States, drug trafficking in Haiti, and US economic  interests.
Unmentioned was growing pressure from black leaders and congressional  liberals.
Black activist Randall Robinson, the TransAfrica director whose 27-day  hunger strike pressured the White House to end its policy of intercepting  Haitians refugees at sea and forcibly repatriating them, is increasingly in  favor of US military intervention.
Robinson's position is supported by many in the Congressional Black Caucus.
Although the military option is only backed by a tiny minority, blacks and  liberals exercise a major influence in the Democratic Party and the Clinton  administration.
In addition, this position is supported by influential members of  Congress, including lawmakers from Florida -- the state that has the most to  lose from an invasion of "boat people" -- and those who are tired of seeing  their country humiliated in the international arena.
However, many lawmakers oppose it, a position believed to be shared by the  Defense Department.
Two members of the House of Representatives recently suggested another  military option: taking the Ile de La Gonave, a small island off the Haitian  coast, for use as a refugee processing center and a base for Aristide.
The lawmakers said that move would avoid a potentially costly invasion and  avert logistical problems of implementing Clinton's new policy guaranteeing an  asylum hearing to all Haitian refugees.
Since Clinton announced a change in policy on Haitian refugees, their  numbers have grown.
