As President Bill Clinton heads to Europe to  commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Allied invasion of Normandy in World  War II, his foreign policy is being increasingly criticized as confused, weak  and naive.
Last week his turnabout on China was added to a list of policy changes  that have given Clinton's 18-month presidency an image of hesitancy and  yielding to pressure.
After pledging a year earlier not to renew Beijing's trade privileges  without significant progress on human rights, Clinton decided against a  confrontation and changed his mind, saying dialogue is the best way to help  ensure the opening of China.
As was the cases in Haiti, Bosnia and Somalia as well as North Korea, the  Chinese example illustrates Clinton's tendancy to make commitments lightly and  make threats without weighing the consequences, leading to embarrassing  retreats.
Opinion polls show a growing fear among the US public. A survey taken in  mid-May by the Washington Post showed only 40 percent approving of Clinton's  foreign policy and 53 percent disapproving. Worse, only 13 percent believed  Clinton had a clear foreign policy.
Facing an avalanche of criticsim, Clinton said solutions to foreign policy  problems are not as simple as in the period of the Cold War, when resources  were geared at countering the Soviet threat.
"I'm doing the best I can with some fairly intractable problems," Clinton  said in an interview last week.
"At least on the international front, I would say, the problems are more  difficult than I imagined them to be," he said in another recent interview.
Clinton's critics, including those in his own Democratic party, say the  problem stems from Clinton's lack of interest in foreign affairs.
"If the president is not going to spend a great deal of time in foreign  policy, he's got to designate one person, I think, to be in charge, and that  has not yet happened," said Senator Sam Nunn, who head the armed services  committee.
For others, the problem lies in Clinton's inability to take a position on  any subject and stick with it.
While Clinton may believe voters are equally disinterested in foreign  affairs, many analysts say the crisis of confidence could come back to haunt  him in the 1996 election campaign.
"Voters are quick to blame the commander-in-chief if matters take a sudden  wrong turn. They're especially unforgiving when they think a foreign policy  crisis has been precipitated by presidential incompetence. Just ask Jimmy  Carter," said Linda Chavez, a member of former president Ronald Reagan's  administration.
Chavez was alluding to the 1980 Iranian hostage crisis that contributed in  large part to Reagan's electoral defeat of Carter.
According to the Los Angeles Times, Clinton appears to be aware of the  problem and is seeking to devote more attention to foreign policy rather than  replacing his top staff.
"What I need to be doing is considering changing whatever it is that is  not inspiring people's confidence in me and, if we've made some mistakes, we  need to fix it. That's what I'm working on," Clinton said.
