A Japanese court Monday sentenced former state  minister Fumio Abe to a three-year prison term for taking 90 million yen  (870,000 dollars) in bribes from a now-defunct steel-frame maker.
The Tokyo District Court also fined Abe 90 million yen after ruling that  he took bribes from Kyowa Co. in 1989 and 1990 in exchange for using his  political influence to rig bids for public works projects the company was  interested in.
Abe was the first former national politician sentenced to prison for  bribery since 1987 when former prime minister Kakuei Tanaka was sentenced to a  four-year prison term in the Lockheed cash-for-favor scandal.
The court said in sentencing Abe, a former director general of the  Hokkaido Development Agency and the Okinawa Development Agency, that he  committed "a grave crime, spurring people's distrust in politics."
It also said, "He failed to assume responsibility for his duty. There is  no room for any consideration for his crime."
Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata, commenting on the decision, told a parliament  committee Monday that he was "disappointed" by his former Liberal Democratic  Party (LDP) colleague.
The LDP lost power last year for the first time in nearly four decades  following a series of scandals.
Abe was convicted of accepting bribes from Goro Moriguchi, former vice  president of Kyowa, between August 1989 and January 1990. At the time Abe was  in charge of development in the region.
Last year, Moriguchi, 51, who pleaded guilty, was sentenced to five and  one-half years in prison.
The court ruled Monday that the money was a bid-rigging kickback in  connection with public works projects, including the construction of the  indoor "White Dome" stadium in Sapporo, Hokkaido.
Abe, who pleaded not guilty, is appealing to a higher court, his lawyers  said.
Abe, who served as a state minister until 1990 under the government of  then prime minister Toshiki Kaifu, was a close aide to former prime minister  Kiichi Miyazawa.
His arrest came a year before former kingpin Shin Kanemaru, former vice  president of the LDP, was arrested for massive tax evasion.
