Northern forces have launched a fierce artillery  assault on Aden airport to try to ground southern warplanes attacking  advancing troops, a military spokesman said here on Sunday.
But the spokesman denied southern claims the north had unleashed a missile  attack on the southern stronghold of Aden which killed one civilian on  Saturday.
"The explosions heard in Aden are the result of artillery fired from the  legal (northern) forces against the air base at Aden airport," the spokesman  told the official SABA news agency.
There was no confirmation from southern sources of the shelling of the  airport which is located between Aden's old city, the port and the suburbs.
"All military targets in Aden are now within range of northern artillery  currently positioned at least 14 kilometers (eight miles)" from the city, the  spokesman added.
The shelling of the airport is to "prevent the rebel, separatist band from  using it to launch air raids against civilians and legal forces," he said,  adding no "civilian facility or neighborhood will be targetted by artillery."
The goal is to "force the rebel separatists to surrender and submit to the  will of the people who support unity, and democracy and respect constitutional  legality," he said.
Northern troops have had difficulty pushing forward in the two weeks since  they captured the base at Al-Anad, 60 kilometers (35 miles) north of Aden,  mainly because of southern air power, a diplomat in the Gulf said.
They have also been pinned down on the western and eastern fronts by the  well-trained southern air force, he said.
Southern military sources said air defenses in Aden hit two  ground-to-ground missiles fired late Saturday from the north, but falling  debris killed one person and wounded five others.
The explosions took place about 10 kilometers (six miles) north of the  city center in the Sheikh Othman district.
The sources said the missiles were not accurately targetted at the Aden  refinery and heating plant.
Military officials in the north said they were not targetting oil  facilities.
Three other explosions were heard early on Sunday, but there was no report  of their origin.
Southern Yemen on Saturday appealed to Jordan to intervene to stop the  civil war that broke out between the former North and South Yemen on May 5,  official sources in Aden said.
Anis Hassan Yahia, chairman of the provisional national unity assembly,  the week-old caretaker parliament of the newly-proclaimed Yemen Democratic  Republic, sent the message to Jordanian parliamentary speaker Taher al-Masri,  the source said.
Jordan brokered a Yemeni peace accord in Amman last February 20, but the  move to ease relations between the two Yemens, which had never fully  integrated despite their unification in 1990, remained a dead letter.
Amman last Sunday reaffirmed its commitment to a united Yemen recognised  in international law.
Diplomatic efforts continued in a bid to end the war, with Yemen's  northern Foreign Minister Mohamed Bassandawa holding talks with Egyptian  officials in Cairo.
The prime minister of the breakaway state in the south, Haidar Abu Bakr  al-Attas, met with the leader of the United Arab Emirates, Sheikh Zayed bin  Sultant al-Nahyan.
