Miners returned to work at the Western Areas  gold mine outside Johannesburg Saturday, where seven miners died in clashes  between rival political groups in the past month, owners Johannesburg  Consolidated Industries (JCI) said.
JCI said in a statement that more than 70 percent of staff had returned to  work but others were continuing to demand justice following the deaths of four  employees this week.
Earlier, JCI chief Kennedy Maxwell, quoted in the daily Citizen, said  management-led talks produced an agreement on a code of conduct, the setting  up of a committee of inquiry into the incidents and security arrangements  acceptable to all.
Seven people died in three and a half weeks of political tension between  supporters of the Zulu nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) and the African  National Congress (ANC) at the gold mine west of Johannesburg.
Mine engineer John Brownringgs told the newspaper that work would start up  Saturday. No independent confirmation was immediately available.
Security forces under the new government moved swiftly Thursday to prevent  further clashes at Western Areas and confiscated up to eight tonnes of  homemade and traditional weapons from the mine hostel, Frans van Rensburg, a  spokesman for JCI said earlier this week.
Trade union officials said politically motivated fighting between IFP and  ANC supporters started on April 17, nine days before South Africa's first  all-race elections.
They said one person was killed on April 17, two others died in fighting  during the April 26-29 poll and four were killed Wednesday.
Nelson Mandela's ANC won the election, ending more than 300 years of  white-minority rule.
Because most miners stay in large hostels accommodating thousands of  people, ethnic and political differences often boil over and result in  violence.
In one of the worst incidents, four miners were killed Wednesday in an  underground battle in the mine's south shaft between workers armed with axes  and picks before security forces moved in to help restore order.
About 9,500 miners were on strike Friday after defying a court order  Thursday that ordered them back to work at the Kloof gold mine near  Carletonville, 50 kilometres (32 miles) west of here.
The owners of the Kloof mine, Gold Fields, estimated production loss since  the strike began on May 5 at around 25 million rands (6.8 million dollars) and  Friday ordered the strikers to return to work by Sunday.
Workers had downed tools eight days ago following the dismissal of a trade  union leader for allegedly intimidating workers during a strike in March.
