Tottenham Hotspur, the London giants who narrowly  escaped relegation from the English Premiership, could yet go down after being  accused of making "irregular" loans to players.
England star Paul Gascoigne, now with Italian club Lazio, was alleged to  be one of the recipients of the loans, said to have ranged from 25,000 pounds  to 70,000 pounds.
In 1990 Swindon Town, newly promoted to the old-style Division One, were  relegated to Division Three after being found guilty of similar charges. On  appeal they were finally placed in Division Two.
Although the Football Association could relegate Spurs, a heavy fine is  more likely as the alleged offences occurred when Tottenham were under the  jurisdiction of the Football League.
A three-man Premier League inquiry team spent more than six months  investigating the allegations and the inquiry is continuing.
The loans were allegedly made to players between 1985 and 1989. They were  said to be worth more than 400,000 pounds but were never repaid.
The alleged offences occurred before Alan Sugar took control with the now  England manager Terry Venables in 1991.
Further investigations could relate to money allegedly offered by  Tottenham to entice schoolboys to sign for the club.
North London rivals Arsenal were among several clubs who recently  complained of an 87,000 pounds offer by Spurs to 13-year-old schoolboy Scott  Parker.
FA chief executive Graham Kelly said Tottenham had 14 days in which to  answer the charges.
Sugar claimed he had played a major role in bringing the business of the  possible irregular payments to the attention of the game's authorities.
"As soon as I gained full executive control of Tottenham, following the  dismissal of Mr Venables in the summer of 1993, I called a meeting with the FA  and the Premier League for the purpose of alerting them to possible past  irregularities."
Venables had his private business, Edennote, wound up in the London High  Court on Thursday after it ran up a debt of 183,750 pounds to his former club.
The move was a further twist in the long-running dispute between Venables  and Sugar.
Venables has a one million pound legal action pending against the club for  wrongful dismissal, as well as a claim for 100,000 pounds back tax against the  Inland Revenue.
