Hong Kong breathed easier Friday after the  United States renewed China's most favored nation (MFN) status, but a China  business consultant warned of more bumps ahead in Sino-US relations.
Chief Secretary Anson Chan called President Bill Clinton's decision to  sustain MFN while delinking trade from human rights "good news for Hong Kong,"  even though renewal was already widely expected.
"We know that the US administration took into account Hong Kong's concerns  and we are grateful for that," said Chan, who went to Washington last month to  lobby for unconditional MFN renewal.
Governor Chris Patten was in London when the announcement was made.
The stock market anticipated the news from Washington, and after the  announcement the blue-chip Hang Seng Index actually slipped 6.17 points to  9475.54 shortly before the close.
As the foremost portal for Sino-US trade, thriving Hong Kong risked seeing  its 5.5 percent growth rate slashed by up to three percentage points if MFN  been been revoked, according to government estimates.
Between 50,000 to 75,000 Hong Kongers would also have lost their jobs.
"That loss has now been avoided," said Hong Kong General Chamber of  Commerce director Ian Christie.
"The decision to extend and de-link has the potential to put Sino-US  relations on a sounder and more stable footing for the future," he added.
But a China business consultant, Jeff Muir, warned that Clinton's decision  raises as many questions as it answers -- particularly on how Washington now  intends to confront Beijing on human rights.
"My question in all of this is, where will they now go with the human  rights agenda," said Muir, managing director of Market Access Ltd. and an  associate of Hong Kong-based US businessman and human rights activist John  Kamm.
Muir said he doubted that Clinton would let human rights fade into  obscurity, but at the same time, the United States has a wide range of thorny  issues to sort out with China.
Among those topics are freer market access for US goods and services in  China, intellectual property rights, US policy on Taiwan and Tibet, and the  proposed setting up of a US-backed Radio Free Asia.
"We're going to see this big over-focus on MFN disappear -- but meanwhile,  back at the ranch, there are all these other things which had been pushed into  the background, and which now have to be dealt with," Muir said.
Speaking on local radio, Robin Munro, the Hong Kong director of Human  Rights Watch/Asia, called Clinton's announcement "deeply disappointing."
"This latest decision can only be taken as a victory for toughness,  intimidation and a hardline position from Beijing," he said.
New York-based Human Rights Watch/Asia, formerly Asia Watch, said last  week that it knew of more than 200 people still languishing in Chinese jails  for having taken part in the Tiananmen Square democracy movement five years  ago.
