South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-Joo on  Wednesday held out hopes for a negotiated solution to the nuclear standoff  with North Korea, despite news that Pyongyang had already started refuelling a  reactor that is at the heart of the crisis.
Meanwhile, a three-member team from the International Atomic Energy Agency  (IAEA), was to start Wednesday their week-long inspections of nuclear  facilities in North Korea, Pyongyang radio said.
Han, now on a trip to Bangkok, told accompanying journalists that it was  "improper" for North Korea to start the refuelling process without the  presence of the IAEA.
"However, if the IAEA judges that the situation is not so serious, the  US-North Korea high-level talks will take place," he was quoted by Yonhap news  agency as telling the journalists.
He said North Korea must allow the IAEA to select among used fuel rods  from the five-megawatt reactor and store them to measure their radioactivity  levels at a later date to help determine whether the fissile material had been  diverted for weapons.
These are the minimum conditions for the US-North Korea talks to be held,  he said, adding: "The high-level talks could be held early next month."
The talks, if they take place, would focus on diplomatic recognition of  North Korea, economic aid from Western countries and the halt of the 1994  US-South Korea joint military exercise, Team Spirit, scheduled in November.
Han's remarks contrasted with hardline statements from some US officials  and congressmen who said the United States would stop talks and push for  punitive steps if North Korea had changed the fuel rods without IAEA presence.
North Korea said last weekend that it had begun the refuelling operation  at the controversial reactor at Yongbyon, 90 kilometers (54 miles) north of  Pyongyang.
According to the United States, the operation could yield enough plutonium  to fuel four to five nuclear bombs.
But Han said it was not yet clear how far the North Koreans had progressed  in the process, which IAEA officials said could take a few months.
North Korea said it would allow the IAEA to pick up from where it left off  in March and reinspect a radiochemical laboratory, check surveillance  equipment and witness the changing of fuel rods at the five-megawatt reactor.
If it is confirmed that North Korea has not yet "crossed the line" and  left enough room for the sampling of spent fuel by the IAEA, US-North Korea  high-level talks will be held, Han said.
What matters the most, Han said, is what North Korea did with replaced  fuel rods and "accounting" for the fuel rods to guarantee that there was no  diversion of the nucler waste for weapons.
