US and Japanese trade officials appeared close  to an agreement Monday in marathon talks on breaking a three-month deadlock in  bilateral trade negotiations.
President Bill Clinton's chief economic advisor, Laura D'Andrea Tyson,  said  there would be a press statement Tuesday but refused to comment on  whether this meant the two sides had resolved their differences in their  bilateral trade talks.
Japanese Deputy Foreign Minister for Economic Affairs Sakayuki Hayashi  said he hoped that they could complete the talks by the end of the day, and a  US official indicated the two sides were putting the final touches on an  agreement.
But a Japanese official who asked not to be named said that the talks were  still continuing and that it was premature to talk about a press statement.
US officials said US-Japan negotiations would resume again at 9:00 p.m.  (0100 GMT Tuesday). A Japanese official said the talks could go on as late as  midnight.
Earlier, senior US economic and trade officials gathered in the office of  US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor after the seventh US-Japan meeting since  Thursday to try to break the deadlock.
The talks were originally scheduled to last only for a day but as they  were repeatedly extended it became increasingly clear that the two sides were  holding a serious discussion.
Commerce Secretary Ron Brown said the fact that the talks had been  prolonged "is a good and positive sign."
The talks have been punctuated by long breaks, apparently for the Japanese  side to consult with Tokyo.
Negotiators are trying to agree on ground rules for resuming trade  negotiations which collapsed in February in a disagreement over how to measure  progress in opening Japan's markets and reducing its 60 billion dollar trade  surplus with the United States.
Earlier, Kantor was lukewarm about the chances of reaching an agreement in  the dispute.
"I am not optimistic or pessimistic. I am realistic," he said.
Kantor on Monday described as inaccurate a Wall Street Journal report that  the US side was easing its position and was prepared to abandon its insistence  on numerical targets to measure progress, something Japan had rejected as  managed trade and leading to quotas.
"We have not backed off," Kantor told reporters. "We have never asked for  market share."
The Journal quoted US negotiators as saying they were close to a deal in  which Washington would pledge not to seek specific numerical targets for  foreign imports into Japan.
In return, Japan would agree to set goals to open its markets including  some way to measure progress and acknowledge the need to boost imports.
Reports from Tokyo before the talks began suggested the Japanese team  could bring proposals for at least partial acceptance of numerical targets in  the government procurement sector.
The government procurement talks cover computers, supercomputers,  satellites, medical technology and telecommunications.
