Thousands of terrified Hutus streamed out of  Kigali fearing an expected rebel takeover as a UN envoy arrived Tuesday to  pave the way for the return of UN peacekeepers despite rebel objections.
The envoy, Iqbal Riza, held talks with army commanders in Rwanda's  blood-drenched capital, where a fragile truce observed by both sides during  his visit largely held despite sporadic shelling, UN spokesman Abdul Kabia  said.
Riza was unable to resolve a dispute with the mainly Tutsi rebels over the  size of a planned UN force during lengthy talks with guerrilla leaders in  their northern stronghold of Mulindi on Monday, Kabia said.
The well-armed and well-disciplined rebels, confident of victory over the  battered and demoralised government forces who are running short of  ammunition, object to the UN's plan to send 5,500 peacekeepers to Rwanda, UN  military officials said.
The rebels maintain that 2,500 soldiers will be enough to escort relief  convoys and accuse the United Nations of waiting too long before trying to  intervene to staunch Rwanda's six-week-old bloodbath.
They have vowed to take the entire country to stop the wholesale slaughter  of Tutsis and Hutu opposition supporters by extremist Hutu militias, which  relief officials say president Juvenal Habyarimana formed in the year before  his death in a mysterious April 6 plane crash.
The world body withdrew almost all its troops, who had been monitoring a  precarious ceasefire, after 10 Belgian peacekeepers were murdered in the  initial bloodletting unleashed by Habyarimana's death.
The planned new force has not been mandated to intervene in fighting  between the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) and the Hutu-led government  forces.
But it is supposed to stem the killings of civilians, up to half a million  of whom have been hacked or clubbed to death.
Diplomats and military analysts, however, said it was unclear how the UN  troops could do so, whether they numbered 5,500 or 2,500. They also voiced  doubts about the UN's ability to muster the force after its debacle in Somalia.
The rebels objected to Riza's plan to hold talks with the rump government  on Wednesday.
They said the meeting would be tantamount to recognising the legitimacy of  the all-Hutu government proclaimed after Habyarimana's death despite peace  accords under which a coalition administration including the rebels should  have been formed.
Kabia, however, stressed that the planned meeting "does not constitute  recognition."
He told AFP by telephone from Kigali that it was unclear whether Riza  would meet government ministers in Kigali or Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25  miles) to the southwest, where the government fled as carnage engulfed the  capital last month.
Rebel guerrillas, who captured Kigali airport and a key army base Sunday  in their biggest victory in six weeks of fighting, are trudging through  southern marshes in a steady advance on Gitarama.
Outside Kigali, fierce fighting was reported in the northwestern town of  Ruhengeri and Bugesera, in the south.
Relief officials meanwhile said thousands of people, mainly Hutus, were  fleeing Kigali in a desperate scramble for safety.
"They are certain that the RPF will take the city and they fear that there  will be retribution (for the killings of Tutsis)," said a relief official who  requested anonymity.
UN military officials said they expected the rebels to drive government  forces out of Kigali "within a week."
About half a million Rwandans have sought sanctuary in neighbouring  countries, with 320,000 in Tanzania alone.
In Geneva, the UN Commission on Human Rights went into special session  Tuesday to discuss ways to end the killing in Rwanda. Jose Ayala Lasso, the  human rights commissioner, has called for "effective international action."
The two-day meeting is expected to lead to the appointment of a special  rapporteur to visit Rwanda and make recommendations back to the United Nations  within four weeks.
