The Palestinian  intelligence chief for Gaza and Jericho lived in hiding in Israel for 27  years, when even his family believed he had died, a senior Palestinian police  officer disclosed here Monday.
The officer told AFP that General Mosbah Hanafi Rushdie Sakr went missing  during the 1967 Middle East war in which Israel seized the West Bank and Gaza  Strip.
But the intelligence chief for the self-rule areas of Jericho and Gaza  lived in Israel under a false name.
PLO leader Yasser Arafat "announced to us, a few days ago, that he (Sakr)  would be the next chief of the intelligence services," the officer said,  declining to be named.
Born in Gaza in 1943, Sakr graduated as an officer from the Cairo military  academy in the late 1950s. He was commander of the Palestine Liberation Army  for the Khan Younes area of Gaza in 1967, when he disappeared without a trace.
A nephew, taxi-driver Bashir Sakr, said the head of the Palestinian police  force contacted the family last week.
"General Nasr Yussef sent two of his men to my house on Thursday, in my  absence, and asked my mother: 'Where's your brother Mosbah?' The poor woman  replied she had no idea," the nephew said.
"Then I met a deputy to the general who asked me what I knew of my uncle  Mosbah, and I replied that he was dead.
"He replied: 'No. Your uncle is alive and is living somewhere nearby. If  he turns up or calls, tell him that president Arafat wants to speak to him or  that he should come to our offices."
Some people believed General Sakr had drowned swimming the Jordan River  from the West Bank to Jordan.
But his brother Hamis said he had never really believed Mosbah was dead.  "I didn't wear black in mourning. I asked the International Committee of the  Red Cross but they never found him in Israeli prisons."
He also investigated in Amman and Beirut as well as with the PLO, who said  the general had died a marytr for the Palestinian cause.
"When I found out he was still alive, I burst into tears. But I won't  really believe that either until I've touched his hand," said the brother, a  merchant in Gaza City.
Even the general's wife, Nismat Barzak, who runs a school, has not had  contact with him throughout the 27 years of Israeli occupation, according to  the family.
Their two grown-up sons, now abroad working in Arab countries, also never  saw their father and "only know his face from old photographs," said Hamis, as  people entered his shop to congratulate him on the wonderful news.
