China has played one of its trump cards in its bid  to obtain renewal of trade privileges from the United States with the release  of Chen Ziming, a symbolic figure of the 1989 pro-democracy movement.
Chen, a 41-year-old economist, was condemned in February 1991 to 13 years  prison for "plotting against the government" and "counter-revolutionary  propaganda."
His sentence, and a similar one imposed on his friend Wang Juntao, who was  freed last month and went to the United States for medical treatment, were the  heaviest imposed on leaders of the movement, which ended with the Tiananmen  Square massacre on June 4.
Chen, described by the authorities as the "black hand" of the movement,  was freed to have medical treatment, Xinhua news agency announced Friday in a  brief five-line dispatch in its English-language service.
He contracted several illnesses while in a Beijing prison and is suffering  serious heart problems, according to his family.
"In releasing Chen on apparent humanitarian grounds, the government has  played its joker which undoubtedly will weigh heavily in Bill Clinton's  choice," said a western diplomat.
The US president must decide by June 3 whether to renew China's Most  Favoured Nation status which grants favourable access to the US market for  Chinese goods.
Washington has said renewal is linked to progress in China's human rights  record.
Chen's freedom follows the recent release of six Christian dissidents from  labour camps where they had been serving terms ranging between one and three  years.
"The authorities are not taking many political risks in releasing  opponents who are ill and a handful of Christians, and allowing some others to  emigrate," said the diplomat.
These gestures to appease Washington do not represent a change in the  government's repressive policies or an improvement in the human rights  situation, political analysts said.
Last Thursday, Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin defended the bloody  repression in Tiananmen Square for the first time publicly. He said any fresh  demonstrations would be dealt with similarly.
On Friday the People's National Congress also approved the revision of the  law on public order aimed at preventing the slightest criticism of the  authorities.
A clampdown on the more active dissidents which began late last year has  intensified in recent weeks with the arrest of at least six people in Beijing  and Shanghai.
The most recent victim was Yang Zhou, spokesman for the Chinese  Association for Human Rights, arrested at his home in Shanghai.
Meanwhile, China's most famous dissident Wei Jingsheng is still under  police guard in a government residence in a Beijing suburb.
Beijing still has another card to play to win over Washington, according  to most political analysts. Bao Tong, 62, the most senior Chinese official  jailed after the 1989 demonstrations was transferred a month ago to a hospital  in Beijing because of deteriorating health.
His family said he has complained of inflammation of the thyroid, salivary  glands and lymph nodes. But he remains under police surveillance in his  hospital bed.
Bao, an economist and former top aide to disgraced Communist Party chief  Zhao Ziyang, is serving a seven-year sentence for "counter-revolutionary  propaganda and incitement."
