Advancing northern Yemeni forces fired a  missile into the key southern city of Aden on Sunday, killing two people and  wounding three others, rescue workers said.
The south, which declared its independence on Saturday, warned meanwhile  that it would fiercely resist the northern push on Aden.
"The road to Aden is a very long and thorny one. It will be the graveyard  of the new invaders before their delusions can touch proud Aden," said Aden  Radio, exactly four years after Yemen's ill-fated unification.
The missile hit a house in the Khormaqsar district, causing widespread  damage and cutting electricity supplies to the area. All the casualties were  from the same family, ambulance crews said.
On the eastern battlefront, northern forces shot down a southern warplane  and seized 15 tanks in the Abyan region, Sanaa Radio said, adding that the  enemy suffered heavy losses.
The missile attack was the first on Aden since the proclamation of an  independent state in the south, in what used to be Marxist South Yemen before  it united with the conservative and tribal North on May 22, 1990.
Two Scud missiles fell on the port city Thursday night as fighting raged  between the northern troops of President Ali Abdallah Saleh and southern  troops backing Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid, whom Sanaa has dismissed.
The latest attack came just hours after a five-man presidential council  was officially named to head the southern state proclaimed by Baid, the leader  of the Yemen Socialist Party (YSP).
The north and south have been embroiled in a civil war since May 5, after  several months of political crisis between Baid and Saleh.
A YSP faction has pledged its support for the country's unity and  denounced the southern strongman as a "traitor" for declaring the Aden-based  state, Sanaa Radio said.
The Fatah faction "stated its rejection of the secessionist step taken by  the traitor Ali Salem Al-Baid and his secessionist gang, and called for  purging the country of this rotten band," the radio said.
It was quoted as saying that independence was contrary to YSP grassroots  opinion.
Aden Radio, meanwhile, dismissed claims by Saleh that his forces had  destroyed 80 per cent of the south's military equipment and that three  southern brigades had surrendered in the oil-rich eastern Shabwa region.
"The misleading media reports of the dictator of Sanaa are tantamount to  confused dreams," it said. Saleh was trying to conceal northern setbacks.
On Saturday, the north said its troops had moved east into Shabwa to attack  forces loyal to Baid, who last week moved his base from Aden to his home port  city of Mukalla in Hadhramaut province.
Correspondents said Saleh's troops had turned up the heat and pushed back  Baid's soldiers to within 40 kilometres (25 miles) north of the city.
Saleh has rejected the south's independence call and vowed to capture Aden  as well as Mukalla, calling off a three-day ceasefire from midnight Friday to  mark the Moslem feast of Al-Adha.
