A suspected PLO mastermind of the  murder of Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics returned to the Gaza Strip  on Thursday to find a guard of honour waiting, a correspondent reported.
Amin al-Hindi, 45, the PLO security chief, crossed the border at Rafah  from Egypt with Israel's approval as self-rule gets into full swing.
He was welcomed by Palestinian bodyguards carrying automatic rifles, but  he refused to allow them to fire in the air, a traditional celebration.
Eleven Israelis died when "Black September" kidnapped the athletes in  September 1972.
Israel vetoed his participation in the autonomy negotiations in Egypt.
Hindi, believed to be one of only two survivors from the group, is to head  the external intelligence wing in the newly-autonomous areas of Gaza and  Jericho.
PLO General Mosbah Hanafi Rushdie Sakr, who lived clandestinely in Israel  for the last 27 years, is to head internal security.
The tall, lean, swarthy Hindi marched into Gaza wearing glasses  accompanied by his wife. He was born in Gaza City and left at the start of the  Israeli occupation in 1967.
Hindi went straight into meetings with the new Palestinian police chiefs.
After the Munich tragedy, the then Israeli premier Golda Meir ordered the  Mossad to liquidate the survivors of Black September, which was named after  the month in 1970 when Jordan expelled the Palestine Liberation Organization.
Mossad chief General Zvi Zamir trained two commando teams codenamed  "Aleph" and "Beta" who are believed to have assassinated 13 Palestinians  between November 1972 and July 1973.
On June 9, 1992, Israeli secret agents gunned down another Black September  member, Atef Bssisso, in Paris, according to the French police.
That left alive only Hindi and Mohammad Daoud Odeh from Black September  which the PLO set up in 1971.
Daoud was arrested in Paris in 1977 but released a few days later amid a  huge scandal. He was seriously wounded in a murder attempt in Warsaw in 1981  and is believed to live between Baghdad and Damascus today.
