Chinese dissidents Thursday publicly challenged  the government by calling on it to overturn the official condemnation of the  1989 pro-democracy movement.
Seven dissidents involved in the Tiananmen Square massacre signed a  petition submitted to the government by Wang Dan, the former student leader of  China's 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations.
The petition, which called for the official judgment on the democracy  movement to be revised and for the release of all protesters who remain behind  bars, was the first major public opposition initiative in the run-up to the  fifth anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre.
"We believe that the government's ruling that the 1989 movement amounted  to chaos and counter-revolutionary rioting is unfair. This ruling must be  revised as soon as possible," Wang said in a petition addressed to the  standing committee of the National People's Congress (NPC).
The petition calls for the release of "all those who are still detained  because of their role in the 1989 movement" and "compensation for relatives of  the June 4 dead, and help for former prisoners returning to society."
Commenting on the petition at his weekly press briefing Thursday, foreign  ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin said the "best judgement of an event... is  history itself. For the past five years China has been enjoying political  stability, economic development, and the living standards of its people have  been improving constantly."
China and its people wanted this to continue in the interest of peace and  stability in the region, he added.
The pro-democracy movement began April 15 and mobilised millions of  Chinese before being crushed by the People's Liberation Army in central  Beijing on June 4 1989.
According to an official version of events, 300 people died. Dissidents  and independent observers said several thousands were killed in Beijing and  the provinces.
Wang's petition said: "This movement was a popular, patriotic and  democratic movement, based around students. We were reasonable and non-violent  throughout."
As proof of just how worried the authorities are as the Tiananmen  anniversary draws closer, Beijing police have been placed on permanent alert  and have beefed up patrols, especially around the main campuses and the huge  square itself, which was occupied by students in 1989.
University professors have received orders to be especially vigilant in  the run-up to the annniversary.
In order to prevent public commemorations, the authorities have detained a  number of people in the past weeks, especially members of the Chinese  Association of Human Rights in Shanghai.
The most famous dissident, Wei Jingsheng, has been detained by police at a  government residence in a Beijing suburb.
The text of the petition, released to the foreign media, said, "We believe  that the June 4 incident is like a 'knot' in the history of the Chinese  nation. Today we are at a key moment in reform and opening, and, like the  government, wish to have stability."
The document highlighted the need to promote social stability, build a  democratic system and ensure social progress.
"We must undo this knot," it said. "This is why we sincerely wish that the  government will take a wise step and take into account the interest of the  nation and the future of the state."
"We have never forgotten this event, and we firmly believe that this  movement has played a highly important role in the history of our country."
"On the occasion of the fifth anniversary, we exercise our political  rights as citizens to issue these public appeals to the standing committee of  the PNC, the supreme organ of state," it said.
The petition was signed by Wang Dan, Ma Shaofang, Zhai Weimin, Shao Jiang,  Li Hai, Zheng Xuguang and Guo Haifeng.
According to a report released this month by the group Human Rights  Watch/Asia, several hundred people are still in prison after being detained  during the crackdown.
