The Palestinian police were  in control of the southern Gaza Strip on Friday as about 300 more  reinforcements arrived and the Israelis pulled out of their last bastion.
"Everything south of the river is in the hands of the Palestinian police,"  a senior Israeli military official said.
The river, known as Wadi Gaza, cuts across the Strip south of the Jewish  settlement of Netzarim.
Israeli forces however remain in charge of security of the 4,000 settlers,  most of whom live in the south of Gaza.
Israeli security forces handed over security installations at Khan Yunes  in the night, the army spokesman said.
It was the last town in the south to be evacuated following Deir El Balah,  Bureij, Nusseirat and Rafah.
Before dawn the army handed over the military administration, border  police and military command buildings in Khan Yunes to 30 policemen who had  just entered the Strip from Egypt.
The army said there was a small ceremony and the local commander, whose  name was not revealed, wished the Palestinians "every success".
Plans of building and telephones were handed over in the transfer.
Facilities in Gaza City were scheduled to be handed over on Sunday, PLO  officials said, and the transfer of authority to be completed by Wednesday.
About 300 Palestinian policemen entered the Strip on Friday and were  deployed in Rafah after travelling from Jordan overnight, PLO officials said.
The men from the Palestine Liberation Army (PLA) join 330 of their  comrades who arrived in three groups on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday nights  through the Rafah border from Egypt.
The newcomers belong to the PLA's "Badr" brigade who were stationed in  Jordan. They crossed the Jordan River and drove through the West Bank aboard  six buses and three jeeps under Israeli army escort.
Their arrival in Rafah, a stronghold of Palestinian resistance, ignited  street celebrations and firing in the air in a repeat of scenes witnessed all  over the strip as the police have taken over.
Meanwhile, in Jericho the Israelis handed over five buildings to 60  Palestinian officers in the early hours of Friday as a small crowd of  residents who had stayed up all night cheered on.
Another 386 policemen, formerly based in Iraq, were crossing the River  Jordan during the day.
The Israelis were set to relinquish total control of the West Bank town by  sunset.
However more than 200 Palestinian police had been stuck all night at the  Rafah border because of what PLO officials described as "a big problem", but  refused to elaborate.
Palestinian sources said the Israeli authorities objected to certain names  and that a major argument ensued. Only 30 Palestinians had been allowed  through to take over Khan Yunes.
Israel's military commander for Gaza, General Doron Almog, told state  radio the handover was proceeding according to plan.
"We are continuing with the pprogramme drawn up in coordination with the  Palestinian generals.
"We have some problems and they have some problems but we get over the  problems."
"We don't want there to a vacuum on the ground. We want to hand over the  buildings in an orderly fashion.
"There is a timetable but anywhere Israelis soldiers remain there can be  difficulties because people can get in the buildings and smash everything. We  don't want that to happen."
"At the start they will have difficulties. But the police are the same  people are those who live in Gaza. I think that after a period of instability,  stabilty will be established.
"The fact that I am sitting down with Palestinian generals, that I am  talking with them, sorting out problems around a table and not with guns is  very moving."
"The fact that we have a coordination office which is working now ...  represents everyone's hope that perhaps in the future we will live a better,  shared life, perhaps without almost any violence."
The Palestinian police is due to have 9,000 men, 7,000 of them from PLA  units scattered across the Arab world, in line with the autonomy deal signed  on May 4.
