Defying protests from Thailand, Australia and five  other countries are considering new military aid for Cambodia following a plea  by King Norodom Sihanouk to save Cambodia "from the yoke" of the Khmer Rouge,  officials said Friday.
Talks have been launched between Australia, France, the United States and  some Asian countries about bolstering Cambodia's ill-disciplined, often unpaid  and poorly equipped military, and a decision on aid could be made by June,  they said.
But Thailand, Cambodia's neighbour, has warned Australia against any  external involvement that could escalate an already bitter conflict, the  officials confirmed.
Thai national security council chief General Charan Kullavanijaya  condemned Australia's interest in providing military help, saying any hardware  would be sold by corrupt Cambodian troops or used in banditry against their  own people, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) reported Friday.
Foreign Minister Gareth Evans said Friday in a statement Australia was  giving "serious consideration" to Cambodia's request and would take into  account the view of other countries, including Thailand.
The situation has deteriorated, he said, but added that an upsurge in  activity by the Khmer Rouge before the onset of the rainy season has been a  traditional guerrilla tactic, and Australia does not view the situation as  "alarming."
King Sihanouk, speaking after a series of reversals for the Cambodian  government forces against the ultra-left guerrillas, expressed despair  Thursday for his country's future, and said military aid seemed to be only  solution.
But he has also admitted to widespread problems of indiscipline and  corruption within the army's ranks.
The United States on Wednesday said it was considering providing "lethal  assistance" to Phnom Penh, but stressed the aid could not be on a unilateral  basis.
Foreign affairs official Lyndall McLean told AFP Cambodia had asked half a  dozen countries for assistance but no country had yet committed itself.
"There are discussions going on at the moment as to whether it could be  done as an international package," said McLean, a former Australian charges  d'affaires and deputy director of the UN transitional authority in Phnom Penh.
But Australia was sympathetic to the situation in which the Cambodian  government now found itself, embroiled in a conflict that was preventing it  from carrying out development work.
"We are looking at military assistance, but whether that package is  training, material or whatever has yet to be determined," she said.
She described the Khmer Rouge as more disciplined, better trained and  organised and the Cambodian forces as "a bit of a rag-tag bundle" of three  previously disparate armies.
"Because of the economic difficulties (they are) still not getting fully  paid, and they have nowhere near the level of discipline," McLean added.
"So in looking at ways in which the Royal Cambodian Army could be  strengthened, it is not just armaments. It really does need some top-to-bottom  house cleaning, training and restructuring.
"There would have to be assurances that what was provided, if anything,  was properly utilised, not sold off, that they are going to take care of it  and that the structure of the army is improved to the extent that they would  become more competent and be able to use that equipment more effectively," she  said.
Although Canberra is a major backer of Cambodia -- last month doubling its  aid package to 92 million dollars (66 million US) over four years -- military  aid is minimal and focused at the moment on mine clearance and naval training.
Australia, which played the key role in developing the Paris accords that  brought a measure of democracy and, for a time, relative peace to Cambodia  does not intend to play a similar role in the current Cambodian crisis, McLean  stressed.
