The United States has been in contact with  Yemen's warring factions and their Arab neighbors in the hopes of resolving  the conflict peacefully, the State Department said Wednesday.
"We continue to be in contact with the northern and southern leaders  urging an immediate cessation of hostilities and a resumption of political  dialogue," said spokesman Michael McCurry.
He added however that "there's not been much progress" in negotiations to  end the civil war which broke out May 5.
Both the Arab League and the Gulf Cooperation Council have been intensely  involved in the effort, said McCurry, who confirmed an earlier statement by an  Egyptian diplomat that the United States had contacted three Arab countries in  an effort to help broker a ceasefire between rival leaders in Yemen.
Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) were contacted  because they "are the three Arab countries best placed" to ensure "an indirect  dialogue between the northen and southern Yemenis," the diplomat said in Cairo.
The aim of the US-led mediation was to "preserve Yemen's unity without  resorting to force," the diplomat added.
He hinted that northern troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh would  be called upon to accept a ceasefire in exchange for the south giving up its  unilateral declaration of independence.
"There is still a chance of ending the fighting in Yemen," he said.
Monday, the United States condemned southern Yemen's declaration of  independence. Leader Ali Salem al-Baid proclaimed a new independent state  Saturday to end a four-year troubled union between the former conservative,  tribal North and the Marxist South.
At UN headquarters, Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said he hoped  member countries would call for UN intervention in the conflict, noting that  the Security Council could not act until requested.
"My hope is that some countries will not hesitate to ask for the  intervention of the United Nations to find a peaceful resolution to this war  and reestablish peace in the Arab state," he said.
