Southern leaders put forward a seven-point  plan Friday to end nine days of civil war in Yemen between rival northern and  southern forces, but the offer was swiftly rejected.
An official spokesman in the northern capital Sanaa described it as  "nothing new" and repeated demands for the surrender of southern leaders.
The plan proposed by the southern Yemen Socialist Party (YSP), which is  headed by ousted vice-president Ali Salem al-Baid, called for an "immediate  end to the war" and the creation of a government of national unity.
The government would be charged with "wiping out the consequences of the  war" and conducting an inquiry into "those responsible for the war," an  official source said.
But from Sanaa a spokesman told AFP by telephone that the north demanded  the surrender of the "war criminal" Baid and "all those responsible for the  war, so that they can be judged for war crimes."
The YSP proposed that the two armies should separate and be "withdrawn to  the positions they held before the war."
All prisoners, whether military or political, should be freed, arrests  should be banned and there should be no torture or legal proceedings, the plan  added.
It called for "the protection of the lives, goods and rights of citizens,  for equal compensation for all the victims of the war including military and  civilians and for all Yemenis killed in the fighting to be considered martyrs."
Thefts from citizens should be stopped and all stolen goods should be  returned or compensated for.
It also called for the rights of political parties to be recognised and  for the multi-party system to be preserved, while the country's leaders should  not give up on implementing a reconciliation accord signed in Amman in  February.
Baid, who was sacked last week as vice president by the northern-dominated  parliament in Sanaa, has said a ceasefire would depend on the withdrawal of  northern forces from the south.
His northern rival, President Ali Abdallah Saleh, has said he would only  accept a ceasefire if the southerners agreed to accept his government, respect  the country's unity and put all armed forces under the government's control.
The rival armies of former North and South Yemen have been locked in civil  war since May 5, shattering four years of uneasy union between the  conservative north and the Marxist south.
