Israel has quit Gaza City's  central prison but Palestinian tears and their dread of torture still haunt  its empty rooms.
Shaken with emotion, Farid Najm, 34, kicked the iron door of the cell  where he had spent three years.
"Quiet, you bastards," he yelled, his voice echoing through the prison,  hours after Israeli troops pulled out on Monday. "The Israelis used to shout  that every day."
"The only thing that has gone is the smell of people being tortured. It  was terrible, unbearable," said Najm, resting his head in his hands.
Several former inmates, who bumped into each other in the corridors on a  tour, remarked that the Israeli army had white-washed the walls before pulling  out.
Before, the walls were black or stained with blood, they said, showing  white spatters of paint on the floor to prove that the painting was a rushed  job.
The walls that used to divide the cells have also been removed, and their  base filled with cement. "We could barely sit," Najm recalled.
Tahsin Taleb, a 30-year-old student, followed the footsteps he took on his  arrest three years ago.
Whenever he came across another former inmate, they congratulated each  other with a tap on the shoulder, a laugh, or a firm handshake.
"On the first floor, the waiting room. A masked man would pretend to  strangle you, another would punch you in the stomach and let you collapse on  the floor," he said.
And then, the corridor, where he had been forced to stay on his feet for  10  long days, and then crouching down for another 17 days, between two  interrogation sessions.
The interrogation rooms are now empty, neon lights left drooping, the  tables and closets gone with only their marks left behind on the floor.
Next, "the refrigerator-room," where cold air came in from holes in the  ceiling, and then the "butcher's room," where prisoners would be hung from  their arms like meat.
On another floor, cells with iron beds had drawings or inscriptions on the  the walls. One showed a mosque, another names of the prisoners who passed  through.
"Today, May 5, 1994, those who support the peace process have been freed,  but we are simply moving to another jail inside Israel. It's a disgrace,"  wrote a member of the Islamic Jihad, which opposes the PLO-Israeli autonomy  deal.
"It should be turned into a museum for the entire world to know how Israel  violated human rights," Tahsin Taleb said.
But none of them said they would bring their children.
"It's a black page in our history, children are our future, they should  not see this," Taleb said.
Mussalem al-Kaid, 42, spent 23 years in jail for mounting armed operations  against Israel. "I was held in 11 different jails, and I kept on dreaming to  see this day," he said.
But the grey-haired man has no illusions. "A prison will always be a  prison, but this time it will be for common criminals."
