Foreign Minister Assef Ahmed Ali on Wednesday  called on the United States to find alternatives to physical inspections for  allaying its fears that Islamabad is building atomic weapons.
The call came on the eve of President Farooq Ahmed Leghari's private visit  to the United States to attend his son's graduation, and he will talk with  unidentified US officials, possibly about "non-intrusive" verification  techniques, a foreign ministry spokesman said.
Leghari is expected to meet with US officials during his stay in  Washington Monday through Wednesday and may see Secretary of State Warren  Christopher. He leaves for the United States Thursday.
"We are willing to consider" such verification techniques, Ali said.
Leghari's visit will coincide with that of P.V. Narasimha Rao, the first  Indian prime minister to travel to the United States in seven years. Rao was  to meet President Bill Clinton on Thursday to discuss India's nuclear  programme and other issues.
India, Pakistan's arch rival, is drawing closer to the United States, and  the United States is now India's largest trading partner.
Ali, who was speaking to reporters, said the United States knew "through  its own means" that Pakistan was not producing nuclear weapons.
He reaffirmed Pakistan's policy which stresses a regional  non-proliferation regime in South Asia, rejecting any unilateral curbs on its  nuclear programme in isolation of India.
Earlier, Interior Minister Nasreeullah Babar, said in the Senate "we will  not go for unilateral capping, let alone reducing and ultimately eliminating  our nuclear programme."
Ali indicated "positive" movement on the issue of stalled delivery of F-16  fighters under a contract signed in 1989. The deal was for 71 aircraft and  Pakistan has already paid for 38.
He said there were encouraging signs that Clinton's administration was  serious to resolve this problem.
There have been suggestions of a one-time waiver of the embargo imposed in  1990 under the US anti-proliferation Pressler law to pave the way for the  release of the F-16 planes.
Ali said there had been a "clear, discernable" shift in US policy as  Washington now wanted a "cap" on and "not a rollback" of Pakistan's nuclear  programme. "Now it is only a question of capping and not rollback."
The United States had also recognized that the nuclear issue in South Asia  had to be resolved on a regional basis, the foreign minister said.
