Yemen's northern foreign minister, Mohammad  Bassandawa, has arrived in Cairo for talks aimed at ending a four-week civil  war in his country, officials here said.
Bassandwa met Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Mussa shortly after arriving  on Saturday and is to meet with President Hosni Mubarak on Sunday, Egyptian  officials said.
The Yemeni envoy told journalists he would give Mubarak a message from  President Ali Abdallah Saleh about the civil war that broke out between north  and south on May 5.
Bassandawa is to attend the opening Tuesday of the meeting of the  Non-Aligned Movement, which is scheduled to discuss the conflict in Yemen as  well as those in Rwanda and Bosnia.
Mussa said Egypt and Arab Gulf countries asked the UN Security Council to  examine the situation in Yemen, adding that a ceasefire was essential to  prevent the conflict from deteriorating.
"A ceasefire would allow for dialogue to be started and preserve Yemen's  unity, while continued bloodletting will undoubtedly harm the country's unity  and future," he said.
The Gulf state of Oman late Friday submitted a proposal to the UN Security  Council that called for an immediate ceasefire and a resumption of  negotiations between the warring sides, according to reports from New York.
Northern forces loyal to Saleh have made gains against southern forces  backing Ali Salem al-Baid, the ousted vice president of united Yemen who  declared an independent state on May 21.
But the north has failed to capture Aden, the capital of the breakaway  state.
In Riyadh, King Fahd of Saudi Arabia spoke to Baid over the telephone  Saturday about "issues of common interest," Riyadh Radio reported.
King Fahd on Friday received a call from Saleh about the trouble in Yemen.
He also met Haidar Abu Bakr al-Attas, the prime minister of the breakaway  state, in the Saudi Red Sea port of Jeddah.
Saudi Arabia last week called on the Security Council to settle the  conflict peacefully with a ceasefire and an arms embargo. The south welcomed  the plan but the north rejected it.
