Mali's government and the Azawad United Front  Movement (MFUA) Movement of armed Tuareg groups have agreed to dismantle  Tuareg bases and integrate guerrillas into the army, a joint statement said  Monday.
After talks in Algiers, the Bamako government and the Front, which groups  four Tuareg movements, signed an agreement on the number of MFUA fighters and  cadres to wear "the uniform of the state" and on "socio-economic projects and  the civil service," the statement said.
The warring parties also agreed late Sunday to the "dismantling of MFUA  bases, a cutback in (government) military strength and the establishment of  security arrangements to protect people and property" in the Sahel nation's  desert territories.
Three ad hoc committees were set up, each including representatives of the  two sides and Algerian mediators. The first will work on the reintegration of  Tuareg forces from June 15, the second on dismantling the rebel bases from  October 15 and the third on social measures for former fighters, the statement  said.
The accord was signed by Malian Territorial Administration and Security  Minister Sada Samake and MFUA general coordinator Abderahmane Guella, in the  presence of Algerian Foreign Minister Mohamed Salah Dembri, after the talks  held here between last Tuesday and Sunday.
Those negotiations, behind closed doors, followed two meetings at  Tamanrasset in the Algerian Sahara in April, where the MFUA demanded the  incorporation of 2,300 Tuareg fighters into the regular army, while the  government said it was ready to take in 1,000. Since a national peace pact was  signed in Bamako in February 1992, 644 Tuaregs have joined the army.
Tuareg nomads have been fighting for recognition of their rights and  territories both in Mali and neighbouring Niger. Their traditional lifestyle  has in recent years been undermined by centralist government policies and by  severe drought, decimating their livestock.
Algeria, Burkina Faso and Mauritania together host about 160,000 Malian  refugees. Last year, a few hundred went home from Algeria in an operation  financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development.
