The Philippines' longest fiesta comes to a climax  Saturday with the coronation of Miss Universe 1994, ending national hysteria  over 77 contestants vying for the world's most coveted beauty title.
Countless bets have been placed by gambling-crazy Filipinos, with several  odds-on favorites clearly ahead nearly a month after the aspirants invaded  this tropical archipelago, which hosted the same pageant 20 years ago.
Miss Venezuela, Minorka Mercado, 22, has attracted a strong following in  the press and public. At 1.87 meters (6ft 2in) and wearing stiletto heels, the  brunette student dwarfs some of the Philippines' professional basketball  players.
Miss Belgium, Christelle Roelandts, 19, a baby-faced but buxom public  relations major who adores Agatha Christie mysteries, is a popular heartthrob.
Miss Thailand Areeya Chumsai, 23, a US-trained journalist, and Miss  Colombia, Carolina Gomez Correa, 19, a photography student, are also adored by  locals.
But hometown bet Charlene Gonzales, with mixed Spanish and Filipino  origins, is not given much chance of becoming the third Filipina Miss Universe  after Gloria Diaz (1969) and Margie Moran (1973).
For nearly a month, the country's hyperactive media -- normally  preoccupied with political scandal and gory crimes -- have been dominated by  photographs and television appearances of the leggy young ladies.
An attempt to snap the country out of its reverie failed when a small bomb  went off outside the contest venue late Thursday, damaging a concrete garbage  bin, which organizers shrugged off as a publicity stunt by parties unknown.
Organizers say 600 million people in 65 countries are expected to watch  the pageant finals, which will be held here Saturday morning to coincide with  prime time US television.
More than a thousand affluent aficionados will pay anywhere from 9,000 to  12,000 pesos (333 to 444 dollars) for seats at the venue, the Philippine  International Convention Center. President Fidel Ramos is expected to attend.
The contest is not without its detractors.
For one thing, it reminds some Filipinos of the brutal and rapacious rule  of the late dictator Ferdinand Marcos and his flamboyant wife Imelda, who used  the Miss Universe 1974 contest in Manila to deodorize the regime.
Critics also question the relevance of holding what they regard as a  glorified meat market in a country where half the people live in poverty, and  per-capita income stands at less than 800 dollars a year.
Feminists also used the occasion to draw attention to the estimated  100,000 Filipinas forced by poverty to work as prostitutes, some of them  exported to Japan and other countries.
The question of cost is still a muddle. Organizers, led by the tourism  secretary, admit the Philippines will make little money, if any, out of the  contest, but are confident it will reap incalculable benefits from the  worldwide media exposure.
