Seventh-seeded Becker, never really at home on clay which neutralises the  effect of his power serves, boosted his confidence by reaching the final in  Rome earlier this month and he should safely negotiate his way past 42nd  ranked first-round opponent Jonathan Stark. The three-times Wimbledon champion  should then face Jim Courier in a potentially explosive fourth-round encounter.
Courier, desperately trying to recapture the big-hitting, baseline tennis  which made him invincible on the Roland Garros Courts throughout 1991 and  1992, has not won a tournament this season -- although he did reach the final  at Nice.
He came close to upsetting eventual winner Andrei Medvedev at Monte Carlo  but finally surrendered after a classic three-set battle and the hard-working  23-year-old American has consequently slumped down the rankings.
Courier is determined to put that right in Paris.
Fourth-seeded Medvedev, a semi-finalist last year, has staged a remarkable  comeback to the Tour this season after a three-month absence for a knee injury.
The 19-year-old, tipped by most of the top players as a potential world  champion, reached the final in his first tournament of the year at Estoril and  then won at both the Monte Carlo Open and Hamburg.
Medvedev opens his 1994 campaign against experienced Wally Masur. The  Australian Davis Cup player, although more at home on faster surfaces is  always a tough opponent and he should prove an excellent test for the Ukranian.
Medvedev's main threat before reaching the quarter-finals could come from  thirteenth-seeded Magnus Gustafsson of Sweden, winner of two titles this  season.
The sixth-seeded 23-year-old Bruguera, like so many of his compatriots  never more at home than on a clay court, has not been quite so sharp this year  and has yet to win a title.
The 23-year-old Spaniard, who is coached by his father Luis, has lost all  three finals he has appeared in -- going down to Gustafsson in Dubai, Medvedev  at Monte Carlo and Austrian baseline specialist Thomas Muster in Madrid.
He opens his sixth appearance in the world's supreme clay-court event  against Czech Martin Damm but has eleventh-seeded baseline slogger Muster as a  scheduled fourth-round opponent. Muster opens against Russian Amdrei Cherkasov.
But this section of the draw could throw up a lot of surprises.
