The relief was palpable at NATO here Wednesday  after Russia signalled it was ready to join the western alliance's programme  of military partnership amid pledges of a new non-aggressive post-Cold War  military doctrine.
Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev declared on several occasions  Tuesday and Wednesday that Moscow would set no conditions for joining the  partnership for peace (PFP) programme.
However, he said Russia still wanted regular political consultations on  European and global security with NATO on a regular and emergency basis. There  was no immediate NATO response.
Grachev was speaking at a meeting of defence ministers from the North  Atlantic Treaty Organisation with their counterparts from the former Soviet  bloc.
US Defense Secretary William Perry said Grachev had given an "excellent  presentation" on Russia's new non-aggressive post-Cold War military doctrine,  and expressed pleasure at Russia's pledge to join the PFP.
NATO countries had been worried that Russia would present a list of  unacceptable demands for joining the PFP, which was launched in January and  groups the western alliance with countries of the former Soviet bloc.
Their fears had been fuelled by months of conflicting statements from  officials and politicians in Russia, ranging from support for military  cooperation with the west, to outright chauvinistic refusal.
"But today we are relieved and happy," one diplomat said.
British Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind told journalists: "It is looking  very good. Russia clearly wants to play a constructive role, working on issues  of common interest."
A NATO official said: "Nobody here wants confrontation, neither NATO nor  the Russians. Everybody here wants to cooperate with the Russians."
Perry confirmed that a compromise was emerging -- that Russia would not  get the treaty on political relations with NATO that it had sought, but could  bank on special cooperation on nuclear issues such as arms control.
Diplomats said this was a face-saving compromise for Russian leaders which  would allow them to claim at home that the west regarded Moscow as a nuclear  super-power more influential than its eastern European neighbours.
Grachev reiterated that Russia was not insisting on special political  links with NATO as the price for signing the PFP, which has already been  joined by 16 countries of the old Soviet bloc.
But he announced he would present NATO later Wednesday with proposals for  specific Russia-NATO cooperation, involving a "protocol of intention or  programmes specific to Russia-NATO cooperation."
Some countries, particularly the United States, say they do not want  NATO-Russia links formalised on paper, but to evolve depending on Russian  cooperation in the PFP programme.
A Polish diplomat warned that Warsaw and other eastern European countries  would not accept Russian involvement in NATO decisions concerning their  security.
"Our political standpoint is that there should be nothing about us without  us," he said, citing a Polish proverb.
An example of what Poland would not accept, the diplomat said, was a  proposal from Moscow for joint Russia-NATO security guarantees over countries  such as Poland.
But Perry said fears that NATO and Russia might divide up eastern Europe  into Cold War-style spheres of influence were "entirely inappropriate and  misplaced."
