President Bill Clinton was studying several  options on China's trade status including imposing limited sanctions on Bejing  while extending most favored nation status, administration officials said.
White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said Tuesday that the president  discussed the matter Monday with Secretary of State Warren Christopher but  added that no formal recommendation had been made.
One official, however, said Christopher appeared to favor a middle-ground  approach that would renew MFN for another year but impose targeted sanctions  for certain goods.
Analysts have suggested such an approach would likely penalize state-owned  industries in an effort to pressure Beijing to improve its record on human  rights while maintaining low tariffs on private-sector goods.
Clinton warned last year that any further renewal of MFN status would  depend on China showing "overall significant progress" in human rights issues,  and outlined seven areas in which such improvements should be observed.
Christopher must advise Clinton before June 3, the deadline for the  president to decide whether to extend MFN status, which brings the lowest  available US tariffs on imports.
According to officials, who requested anonymity, Christopher said that  China had met two of seven requirements: cooperation in ending the export of  prison-made goods and allowing relatives of some dissidents to leave the  country.
Although mixed results were reported in the other five areas, the  officials added, the progress described by Christopher provided narrow legal  grounds for MFN renewal.
Myers said Clinton would use a "broad latitude" in examining the question.
"He will look broadly at the whole issue of China human rights, the  US-Chinese relationship," Myers said.
Some officials are believed to be urging Clinton to make an announcement  this week, but the White House has given no indication how far ahead of the  June 3 deadline he would act. Clinton is due to leave for Europe for the D-Day  celebrations June 1.
A coalition of human rights groups charged Monday that China had failed to  meet criteria set by Clinton a year ago and that conditions had actually  become worse in China. But some activists acknowleged it would be difficult  for Clinton to revoke MFN entirely, and called for targeted sanctions.
Business interests, fearing a potentially huge drop in trade, are urging  MFN be granted with no strings attached.
Those backing MFN for China include Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy who  said, "China represents a very important market for the United States  agriculture commodities, an important market that will be increasingly  important in the next decade."
"We need to be very clear that if somehow we would rescind MFN to China,  that other nations against whom we compete would just come in and fill the  vacuum," Espy said.
