They are prisoners in their own capital, paralysed  by fear and ravaged by hunger, sheltering from the gunfire in hotels and  churches and the Kigali sports stadium.
Some 20,000 Rwandans have fled their homes for what they hope are safer  surroundings in the city. There are 3,000 in the Aahoro stadium, more than  6,000 crammed into the King Faisal hospital, several hundred in the Meridien  hotel. They are in the sector held by rebels of the Patriotic Front (RPF),  which draws support mostly from Rwanda's Tutsi minority.
Across town where troops of the government dominated by the Hutu majority  hold sway, 5,000 displaced persons have found a refuge in the Holy Family  church and the adjoining school. There are 550 more in the Thousand Hills  hotel.
But shells hit the Holy Family compound last month, killing 15 people and  leaving more than l00 wounded. There were similar attacks on the stadium and  the hospital, leaving dozens of dead. Everybody else blames the warring  forces, but they deny targeting the refugees. "It was an accident, mortars are  inaccurate weapons," they say.
Father Wenceslas Munyeshyaka shows the hole in the church roof.
Hundreds of people are lying in the nave, right up to the altar. In a big  side chapel, Red Cross workers tend the wounded.
Many of the refugees in the hotel are educated people branded as  "intellectuals", along with traders, people under threat because of their  political allegiances or tribal affiliation. They said they had received word  they would be massacred before the week was out.
They sent an SOS to the world community, asking it to put pressure on the  authorities here to let them leave. The United Nations assembled a convoy l0  days ago to take 60 of them to the airport, but soldiers and militiamen turned  them back, wounding several people in the process.
UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Jose Ayala-Lasso met the  belligerents on Wednesday and Thursday and got promises that something would  be done to let the "hostages" be evacuated. Some want to move to neighbouring  countries, others want to go farther afield, while some simply want to change  their prefectures, coded language meaning they want to go to an administrative  district held by their own tribesmen.
Not all the Tutsi want to go to RPF zones, however, for fear of being  forcibly conscripted to rebel ranks. A refugee at the brand new King Faisal  hospital said the rebel movement executed people who slipped out without  permission. "We can no longer go looking for firewood, food or water," he said.
Prudence spoke in a low voice, fearful of spies overhearing her.
Her husband was an adviser to the murdered prime minister Agathe  Uwilingiyimana, and she does not know if he is still alive.
The ordinary townspeople still in their own homes rush out when the  shooting dies down to fill their cans with water or buy a bag of beans. But  most of the fugitives have not ventured out from their shelters in more than a  month, sure that only death awaits them on the streets.
