The latest clashes between government patrols and  Tuareg guerrillas, which left 20 dead, pose no threat to peace talks to be  held in Paris next month, Niger's Interior Minister Ousmane Oumarou said  Friday.
Oumarou told AFP that the meeting planned for June 15 between the two  sides would not be called off because of Monday's two "skirmishes" between the  rebels and government forces, in which 20 Tuaregs died and six were wounded.
"The rebels have reaffirmed that they are sticking by their decision to  take part in the meeting," he said.
Oumarou had Thursday said that 15 rebels were killed and five detained  after a shootout with troops between Assode and Timia, in the Iferouane  region, after a two-month lull in fighting.
Troops seized a four-wheel drive vehicle, weapons, ammunition and various  documents of the Air and Azawakh Liberation Front (FLAA), one of four Tuareg  rebel movements in Niger, the minister said.
State television later reported that five more rebels were killed and one  captured in the Tillaberi region, 100 kilometres (60 miles) northwest of here,  near the border with Mali in another incident Monday.
Government spokesman Moctar Diallo denied reports that around 20 Niger  troops were killed in the clash at Iferouane.
The clashes came after both sides last week said they would seek a  negotiated end to the conflict, which has claimed 126 lives since it erupted  in November 1991 -- 50 of them rebels, 47 civilians and 29 members of the  security forces.
Officials from mediating countries -- Algeria, Burkina Faso and France --  met with delegates from the two sides last week and said the government and  the rebels agreed in principle to a meeting soon.
Both sides last met in Ouagadougou in February, but failed to meet in  Paris at the end of March as initially planned.
The Tuaregs' Armed Resistance Coordination (CRA) coalition grouping wants  a high degree of autonomy for the 750,000-strong Tuareg community in the north  and centre of the country.
