Fraud charges and counter-charges engulfed  the presidential elections in the Dominican Republic Thursday, leaving  President Joaquin Balaguer with a contested lead and a deepening political  crisis.
The vote count remained suspended as the Central Election Board considered  charges by social democratic candidate Jose Francisco Pena Gomez that changes  in voting lists denied some 200,000 people the vote Monday.
Pena Gomez has demanded the recusal of two members of the election board  who he accused of orchestrating the fraud and is seeking new elections in  districts where voting lists were tampered with.
With international observers supporting allegations of widespread  irregularities, leaders of the ruling Reformist Social Christian Party weighed  in Thursday with wild counter-claims of vote-rigging by the opposition.
Offering no evidence, ruling party senate candidate Vinicio Castillo  accused Pena Gomez of recruiting 300,000 Haitians to vote for him with forged  voting documents.
Castillo contended Pena Gomez' Dominican Revolutionary Party (PRD)  received 300,000 votes more than its historical high, and surmised it could  only have happened if the PRD had given Dominican identity cards to Haitian  refugees.
Throughout the campaign the ruling party sought to discredit Pena Gomez, a  black, by portraying him as the son of Haitians, while raising the specter of  a flood of refugees from the Dominican Republic's crisis-torn neighbor.
In a twist on that theme, Central Bank president Mario Read, a leader of  the ruling party, accused the industrialized nations and the international  news agencies Thursday of mounting a "conspiracy" against the Dominican  Republic.
He claimed the news media was magnifying the electoral crisis and putting  out false information to create conditions for landing foreign troops in the  Dominican Republic for a subsequent invasion of Haiti.
"What is at stake here is our sovereignty and our nationality," said Read,  who charged that France, the United States, Canada and Venezuela had  orchestrated the campaign against the Dominican Republic.
One effect of the attacks has been to further undermine public confidence  in the five-member Central Election Board, which is responsible for organizing  the elections, conducting the vote count and declaring a winner.
With nearly 95 percent of the ballots counted, the vote stood at 42.57  percent for Balaguer, a lucid 87-year-old seeking his seventh presidential  term, and 41.16 percent for Pena Gomez, who aspires to become the country's  first black president. Former president Juan Bosch ws thid with 13 percent.
Balaguer, who defended the vote as "clean and pure," said Wednesday he  would accept new elections if serious irregularities were proven.
"I respect the decisions of the electoral board and I will comply with its  orders," he said. "If there is something serious, the election should be  annulled and carried out again, but that is up to the board."
In street corner markets, where men gather to drink beer, the impasse has  been the subject of animated debate with some favoring Balaguer and others  Pena Gomez.
But at night, Dominicans have stayed close to home for fear of trouble. On  Santo Domingo's Avenida del Malecon, a normally bustling seaside promenade,  bars and nightclubs were deserted.
Businessmen and hotel keepers worried about the impact on tourism, the  country's main source of foreign currency. "Many tourist reservations already  have been canceled," said the manager of one Santo Domingo hotel.
So far there have been no violent incidents, but during the campaign  election-related clashes claimed the lives of 30 people.
