Russia is heading for massive participation in an  east-west programme of military partnership despite differences with NATO over  political relations, diplomats and officials said here Wednesday.
They were speaking after Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev called for  a formal new system of consultations between Moscow and the North Atlantic  Treaty Organisation on European and world security.
But Grachev stressed that Russia was not insisting on the consultations as  a condition for joining in the partnership for peace (PFP) programme of  military cooperation between NATO and countries of the former Soviet empire.
And a senior NATO source said the Atlantic alliance was willing to go some  way to strengthening consultations with Moscow outside the PFP as a way of  coaxing Russia into the partnership.
Compromise was evident Wednesday as Grachev presented Russia's proposals  on military and political links at a meeting of defence ministers from NATO  and countries of the former Soviet bloc, plus Finland, Slovenia and Sweden.
"We thought (Russia) was only prepared to dabble its toe in the PFP, but  Grachev indicated it was ready to dive in," the NATO source said.
NATO sees the PFP as a web of military cooperation between former Cold War  adversaries aimed at preventing conflict. Russia in the past has shown more  interest in having a political relationship with NATO.
Grachev presented Russia's response to the PFP programme. It indicated  interest in a strong level of involvement including military training and  exercises, plus peace-keeping and search-and-rescue missions.
But it also reiterated Russia's wish for regular and automatic meetings  with NATO on security issues -- and at all political and military levels. NATO  is resisting such a formal commitment.
Grachev also urged that responsibility for European security should be  taken away from the US-dominated NATO towards the pan-European Conference for  Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) where US influence is diluted.
This is an old Russian position which is routinely rejected by NATO.
But diplomats said there was greater sympathy in Brussels for the idea of  more frequent security dialogue between NATO and Russia -- particularly in  areas not dealt with in the PFP such as nuclear arms control.
This could include controls on the spread of nuclear weapons, the  dismantling of weapons and the conversion of Russian weapons factories for  civilian use -- goals supported by Russia and NATO.
However, German Defence Minister Volker Ruehe said Russia could have no  automatic right of consultation about NATO decisions, and no right of veto. It  would not be able to stop a former satellite such as Poland joining NATO.
And, with an eye to calming eastern European suspicion of Russian motives,  he said all NATO-Russian consultations would be "transparent" -- their details  available to other PFP countries.
In his presentation here Wednesday, Grachev also pledged that Russia would  send no troops into the "near abroad" -- other countries of the former Soviet  Union -- without the consent of all parties there.
He said Western troops and officers would be welcome to participate in  peacekeeping operations in such countries as Ukraine, Georgia and Azerbaijan  adding that such help would be a "relief" to the Russian military.
gb/ccr
a1403 25Mai94
