This southern bastion echoed to the thunder of  artillery on Wednesday as fighting between rival Yemeni forces moved markedly  closer, triggering fear and a fresh exodus of foreigners, an AFP correspondent  reported.
It was the first time the sound of battle could be heard so clearly in the  port city of Aden, stronghold of Vice-President Ali Salem Baid, whose forces  are fighting off President Ali Abdallah Saleh' northern army units.
And it sent fear running through the population of 500,000, who had been  reassured only the night before that the southerners were keeping the  offensive at bay.
Remaining foreigners crowded the port trying to board an Indian and a  Pakistani ship which were due to set sail. Nearly 280 Indians were scheduled  to leave during the day, a port official said.
Northern troops, loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh, are locked in a  bitter struggle with Baid's forces at Al-Anad, site of a strategically  important air base 50 kilometers (30 miles) to the north of Aden.
There was also fighting at Zinjibar, to the east, and Kharaz, to the west.
Artillery fire could be heard near the city on Wednesday to both the north  and east.
Baid's Yemeni Socialist Party meanwhile has stepped up conscription,  taking thousands of youths to the front, willingly or not, aboard party  vehicles that were criss-crossing the city.
The civil war, which was entering its third week with no end in sight, has  shattered the uneasy four-year old union between the conservative North and  Marxist South.
Saleh has turned a deaf ear to Arab and international appeals for a  ceasefire, insisting that Baid and his aids surrender or flee into exile.
A spokesman for Saleh's forces late on Tuesday said two southern  helicopters had been shot down over a highway leading to Aden, and one pilot  captured.
He added that Baid's forces suffered heavy losses in battles in Habilayn,  40 kilometers (25 miles) northeast of Aden, and that four tanks, artillery and  eight trucks were seized.
None of the warring parties has published so far a casualty toll, but the  southerners said the losses are "large and horrible."
At least 175 Somali refugees who fled their own civil war have been killed  in crossfire at their sea front camp, according to the UN High Commissioner  for Refugees.
The fighting is still preventing the distribution of aid to some 6,000  Somalis at Al Koud refugee camp, 50 kilometres (30 miles) from Aden, a UNHCR  spokesman said late on Tuesday in Geneva.
Meanwhile in Washington, the State Department issued a warning to its  citizens to leave.
"The US government has learned that Islamic extremists may be planning to  initiate a hostage-taking against Westerners in Yemen. US citizens could be at  risk as potential targets," the department said in a statement.
