A long handshake between two  generals and the Palestinians officially took control of Jericho on Friday,  sparking popular celebrations after 27 years under occupation.
Israel's central region military commander General Ilan Biran grasped the  hand of Palestine Liberation Army (PLA) General Hajj Ismail to mark the  transfer of power for the first autonomous enclave.
"I wish you good luck," Biran said. "All the best. I hope to coordinate  and to cooperate."
"Thank you," Ismail replied through an interpreter. "I hope we will be  successful together on the road to peace."
The ceremony took place by the Allenby Bridge which links Jordan with the  West Bank, after 386 Palestinian police crossed the River Jordan to Jericho.
Biran told reporters: "Part of our job is over, a new life is beginning.  We have handed over authority to their commanding officer."
Palestinian youths shouted "Allah u Akbar" (God is great) and pro-PLO  slogans.
Ismail said: "There are now 462 Palestinian policemen in Jericho. There  will be about 1,500 when we are at full strength," said Ismail, who was based  in Iraq until last week.
"This is a great and historic day thanks to the sacrifices of our people.
"We want peace and the withdrawal of the Israeli army from all the  occupied territories," he said.
A dozen buses and jeeps brought over the former soldiers of the PLA who  stuck Palestinians flags and pictures of PLO chairman Yasser Arafat on their  rifles.
"I'm so happy to be back in Palestine," shouted an officer. "I want to  plant flowers and olive trees. There's been enough death, enough killing. We  want peace."
The Palestinians had already raised their red, green, white and black flag  over Jericho before dawn. The Israelis handed over a series of buildings and a  military base to 60 police officers who slipped in overnight and Thursday.
Only half-a-dozen taxi-drivers witnessed the historic event. But word  spread fast and whole families poured on to the streets to hail their heroes.
Women ululated with joy as the celebrations got into full swing in the  ancient oasis on the edge of the Dead Sea.
Four Palestinian flags fluttered on the roof of the police station, which  until Thursday had been the target of stone-throwing children.
Now children through sweets and kisses at the Palestinian occupants.
"The Israeli flag had been brought down by the time we came in," said Ahmad  Abu Saadeh, a policeman who crossed over in the morning. "There were no more  Israeli soldiers left, we didn't shake hands with any of them."
The Palestinians also took over the main military adminstration building,  the post office, a court house, a military administration building and a  nearby synagogue.
Israeli soldiers were stationed a kilometer (half a mile) away, at the  junction of a road they will patrol Friday with the Palestinian police.
Israeli Colonel A, whose name was not revealed, told state radio: "As soon  as we have the green light it will only take us a few hours to pull out. We  will withdraw before sunset if all goes well."
The radio said Israeli citizens carrying arms would no longer be allowed  to enter the Jericho enclave, the size of which is still in dispute.
Israel has set the area at 62 square kilometres (37 sq. miles). It does  not include any Jewish settlement.
Palestinian police took control of the southern Gaza Strip on Friday as  hundreds more reinforcements arrived and the Israelis pulled out of their last  bastion.
"Everything south of the river is in the hands of the Palestinian police,"  a senior Israeli military official said.
The river, known as Wadi Gaza, cuts across the Strip south of the Jewish  settlement of Netzarim. Israeli forces however remain in charge of security of  the 4,000 settlers, most of whom live in the south of Gaza.
Security installations at Khan Yunes were handed over in the night. It was  the last town in the south to be evacuated following Deir el-Balah, Bureij,  Nusseirat and Rafah.
Facilities in Gaza City were to be handed over Sunday, PLO officials said,  and transfer of authority on the Strip completed by Wednesday.
Unlike the overcrowded Gaza Strip with a population of nearly 800,000, the  Jericho police are taking over a quiet oasis of 15,000 people, known as the  world's oldest and lowest town at 250 metres (825 feet) below sea level.
The police is due to have 9,000 men, 7,000 of them from PLA units  scattered across the Arab world, in line with the autonomy deal signed May 4.
