The International Maritime Organization (IMO) was  this week to deal with piracy in the South China Sea, which a spokeman called  the region's chief trouble spot since the problem had abated in the Malacca  Straits.
A concerted effort by the littoral nations of Malaysia, Indonesia and  Singapore, coordinated by an IMO working group organized last November, has  reportedly resulted in a sharp reduction in piracy in the crowded waterway.
"We sent an inspection team to the region earlier this year and it was  their finding that the problem had been largely solved in the Malacca Straits  area thanks to increased law enforcement," the IMO spokesman said.
"But there has been a resurgence in piracy in the South China Sea," he  said, adding that would be high on the IMO agenda when it dealt with the  piracy question, probably on Friday.
The South China Morning Post reported in Hong Kong on Monday that China  had submitted a report to the IMO admitting some of its law enforcement  officers had been involved in piracy.
The IMO spokesman acknowledged that a report had been received from the  Chinese government, but declined to specify the contents, saying only, "This  is a document submitted for the private consideration of the IMO and not for  publication at this time."
Much of the piracy in Southeast Asia, according to IMO reports, has  involved ships that are underway, as opposed to those at anchor or docked in  port.
The attacks usually take place at night and the pirates, operating out of  powerful speedboats, board the ship at the stern, the nearest point to the  bridge and the crew quarters, said a report.
"In most cases the attackers are looking for cash and valuables that are  easily transportable, such as watches, cameras and similar items," it said.  "The contents of the ship's safe, which is usually located in the captain's  cabin, are normally taken as a matter of course.
"In other cases," said the IMO, "the attacked ship is detained for a  longer period, sometimes lasting for several days...so that the cargo, or the  most valuable parts of it, can be unloaded into another ship. There have been  a few isolated incidents in which the ship as well as the cargo has been  seized permanently."
