The countries of the European Union go into  parliamentary elections this month amid a wave of corruption scandals that  have challenged the political establishment in many member-states.
In Italy, public disenchantment with corruption swept away the entrenched  Christian Democrats and Socialists and replaced them last March with parties  that had never ruled before, including the neo-fascists of the National  Alliance.
In France, investigations into secret political financing were partly  responsible for the Socialist Party's defeat in last year's parliamentary  elections, and similar enquiries have begun into the current governing  coalition Republican Party.
In Spain, the ruling Workers' Socialist Party (PSOE) led by Felipe  Gonzalez is under siege after the arrest of a former central bank chief  prompted a flurry of resignations. And in Belgium, several leading politicians  were also forced to resign after a bribery inquiry.
But the most glaring example is Italy, where media magnate Sylvio  Berlusconi took his brand-new Forza Italia (Go Italy) movement to power within  a few months after corruption trials involving many political old-timers.
The two-year "mani pulite" (clean hands) campaign by Judge Antonio Di  Pietro and others uncovered an extensive web of corruption touching the entire  political and financial world, on a scale that surprised even the cynical  Italian public.
Hundreds of officials and deputies have been arrested and former Prime  Minister Bettino Craxi remains in hiding abroad, pleading illness, while the  courts try to confiscate his passport.
"The Italians have chased the thieves out of town," claimed National  Alliance deputy Mirko Tremaglia.
Spanish voters show signs of rebelling in June's European elections  against Gonzalez's Socialists, plagued by corruption rows after 12 years of  power.
A scandal over secret party financing had already led to early  parliamentary elections in 1992.
But the crunch came this month when former Bank of Spain Governor Mariano  Rubio was arrested on fraud charges, right after former Civil Guard chief Luis  Roldan fled the country, accused of breach of trust.
The flambuoyant French businessman and left-wing MP Bernard Tapie is in the  headlines as the Credit Lyonnais bank has seized his assets and frozen bank  accounts in an attempt to recover debts worth 220 million dollars.
The former minister also faces embezzlement charges in connection with his  Olympique-Marseille football club and one of his companies -- plus involvement  in a match-fixing case -- and may be stripped of his parliamentary immunity.    But his popularity with voters remains unimpaired.
The French Socialist Party, however, has in fact been hurt by corruption  charges, losing elections last year after the emergence of the "Urba affair"  involving secret party financing.
Insider-trading charges linked to a close friend of President Francois  Mitterrand, Roger-Patrice Pelat, have also haunted his circles.
The ruling French right has not escaped investigation, with the Rally for  the Republic under investigation for possible finance abuses.
In a separate inquiry, Defence Minister Francois Leotard of the  centre-right Union of French Democracy (UDF) was cleared Tuesday of corruption  charges concerning the purchase of a house in Frejus, where he is major.
The court ordered a continued probe, however, into the construction of a  wall at the house by a firm that waived the fee and later won a municipal  contract.
Belgium had its own "clean hands" campaign when Judge Veronique Ancia led  investigations into bribes paid by the Italian firm Agusta.
The case led to the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister Guy Coeme, a  French-speaking socialist, and two leading regional Socialist politicians, Guy  Spitael and Guy Mathot.
