Israel abducted a leading Moslem fundamentalist  guerrilla chief from his home in eastern Lebanon in a daring pre-dawn raid   Saturday to unravel the mystery surrounding a missing Israeli airman.
Mustafa Dirani, 46, is accused by the Israelis of having captured Ron Arad  in 1986, one of six Israelis missing in Lebanon since 1982 but the only one  still thought to be alive.
Dirani, who heads the pro-Iranian Resistance of the Faithful, was snatched  by Israeli helicoptered commandos from his home in Qsarnabaa in the  Syrian-controlled Bekaa Valley.
The operation, during which the Israelis said there were no casualties,  dealt a painful blow to the Lebanese and Syrian authorities and underlined  Israel's determination to retrieve Arad at any cost.
Syria, which deploys some 35,000 troops in Lebanon, controls the Bekaa   Valley. A Lebanese army base and a major military barracks is located in the  region near Dirani's home village of Qsarnabaa.
Is Arad dead or alive? Who is holding him and where? These and many other  questions have baffled investigators since Arad's F14 fighter bomber was shot  down over south Lebanon by Palestinian anti-aircraft fire.
The plane was downed during an Israeli bombing raid of the Palestinian  camp of Ain Helweh, which was besieged at the time by the pro-Syrian Amal  militia.
Arad, who had managed to eject from the plane, fell into the hands of Amal  militiamen.
In August 1991, Amal chief Nabih Berry, who is currently the speaker of  the Lebanese parliament, claimed Arad had been "sold to the Iranians for half  a million dollars" by Dirani.
Dirani had been head of security in the Amal militia until 1988 when he  decided to quit the secular group and join ranks with Iranian-backed Hezbollah.
No one has ever claimed responsibility for Arad's capture and there has  been no proof, photographs or videocassettes, that the missing airman was  still alive.
In 1993 several Arab and Lebanese officials fuelled the mystery  surrounding his fate making contradictory statements about where Arad was  being held. But all agreed the airman was still alive.
In December Egypt's ambassador to Israel Mohammad Bassiuni said Arad was  being held in Lebanon.
Before that a Moslem fundamentalist leader in Lebanon told AFP that Arad  was being held by "Syrian or Iranian intelligence services."
A few weeks earlier Fatah security chief Nizar Amar told the Israeli daily  Haaretz that the airman was being held in Syria. "He has not been transferred  to Iran," the Palestinian said.
In January a US congressional team toured villages in the region of Sultan  Yaqub of eastern Lebanon and quizzed villagers on the fate of three Israeli  soldiers missing since a tank battle with the Syrians there 12 years ago.
Their visit followed a pledge by Syrian President Hafez al-Assad to US  Secretary of State Warren Christopher that Damascus would help the  congressional team carry out its investigation.
Arad's release is the key to any global prisoner exchange between Israel  and the Shiite Moslem Hezbollah and the Amal militia.
It was the second time an Israeli commando seized a Moslem fundamentalist  leader in Lebanon.
In an almost identical operation in July 1989, Israeli commandos snatched  Sheikh Abdel Karim Obeid, a cleric and member of Hezbollah, from his home in  south Lebanon.
Obeid and Dirani are now both being held as bargaining chips by the  Israelis
to press for Arad's release.
Hezbollah and Amal have both admitted holding the bodies of at least two  of the missing Israeli soldiers.
In exchange for handing them over, the Shiite movements have demanded the  release by Israel of at least 350 Lebanese held in Israeli jails, including  Obeid.
