Leading mafia turncoat Salvatore Cancemi was  sentenced Wednesday to six-and-a-half years in prison for complicity in the  murder of an Italian Euro-deputy, judicial officials said.
The public prosecutor had called for a sentence of five-and-a-half years  in view of Cancemi's "immense contribution" to anti-mafia probes, notably  inquiries into the assassination of high-profile anti-mafia judge Giovanni  Falcone.
Cancemi, who was convicted of involvement in the March 1992 killing of  Christian Democrat deputy Salvo Lima, is one of three turncoats who have   accused former prime minister Giulio Andreotti of being a one-time ally of the  Rome mafia.
They have charged that Lima was Andreotti's right-hand man in Palermo,  Sicily, where he acted as an intermediary between the ex-premier and the Cosa  Nostra clan.
Separately in Padua, northern Italy Wednesday, the most notorious mafia  turncoat, Tommaso Buscetta, alleged collusion between a police intelligence  chief and the Cosa Nostra, judicial officials said.
Testifying at the trial of Bruno Contrada, ex-number three in the SISDE  civilian secret service and the former head of the western Sicily criminal  police division, Buscetta charged that the defendant collaborated with the  mafia in the 1970s.
Buscetta told the court of his surprise when Rosario Riccobono, a  since-assassinated Palermo mafia chief, told him at an unspecified time during  that decade: "You can return to Palermo. The police won't come looking for  you. I know Contrada."
Stefano Bontade, another clan boss since killed, also spoke of contacts  between Riccobono and Contrada, Buscetta said.
Contrada, 63, was arrested in December 1992. He is the first high-level  police officer to stand trial for collusion with the mafia.
No fewer than 226 witnesses -- 66 for the prosecution and 160 for the  defence, are scheduled to give evidence at his trial, which got under way  April 12 and is being heard in a sequence of towns where different inquiries  relevant to the case have been carried out.
Contrada has denied all charges against him, alleging a plot against him  and manipulation of the turncoats giving evidence.
Referring to recent press reports questioning the reliabily of turncoat  evidence, Buscetta added: "I thought there was real conviction behind the  fight against the mafia. But it's all just hot air."
