Northern Yemeni troops have moved east into the  oil-rich Shabwa region to attack forces loyal to southern leader Ali Salem  al-Baid, local commanders said.
Colonel Muhammad Ismail, commander of northern forces in Mukayras, about  225 (140 miles) kilometres northeast of Aden, told reporters: "We want to open  a front to go to the eastern province (of Hadhramaut)."
Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh told reporters Saturday that his rival  Baid, who had remained in Aden since last August, had now gone to his  birthplace, the port of Mukallah and capital of Hadhramaut.
Speaking at Mukayras base, captured from southern troops two weeks ago,  Ismail said northern troops had been sent from Mukayras to An-Nuqbah, just  south of Ataq in the Shabwa region.
Sanaa radio said Friday southern troops had captured An-Nuqbah.
Ismail said on Friday three brigades of artillery, tanks and infantry had  gone there. Fighting was also raging in Nisab, a village west of Ataq.
In Zinjibar, 55 kilometres (34 miles) east of Aden, commanders of the  northern Al-Amaliqa brigade said they had also sent troops to the area.
Northern troops pounded southern positions with artillery Friday on the  Abyan front, some 35 kilometres (21 miles) east of Aden.
Officers at the Zinjibar base told reporters their forces had been in  control of the area since February 20.
Soldiers there told AFP about 12,000 people had been killed or wounded in  Yemen since the civil war erupted on May 5.
There were few signs of damage in Zinjibar town, but it was largely  deserted.
"We are awaiting the political order from the president to go into Aden,"  said a soldier.
Saleh said Saturday that Baid's decision to set up a separate republic in  the south meant "we are obliged to enter the city (of Aden) at all costs."
Meanwhile, correspondents Saturday reported heavy fighting at the Al-Anad  military base, some 60 kilometres (35 miles) north of Aden, a vast compound  which northern commanders said earlier they had captured Tuesday.
