England's league system was blamed for killing off  their World Cup hopes but it worked out exactly the opposite for Norway.
At least six or seven of the team who tackle Italy, Ireland and Mexico in  the first round of the USA finals, earn their living with English clubs.
Coach Egil Olsen instilled a direct English style which proved more than a  match for Holland and England in the qualifying competition although the Dutch  sneaked in by beating England in Rotterdam.
Tottenham Hotspur goalkeeper Erik Thorstvedt, Oldham's Gunnar Halle,  Sheffield United pair Roger Nilsen and Jostein Flo,  Blackburn's Henning Berg,  Nottingham's Lars Bohinen and Jan Aage Fjortoft of Swindon give England an  interest in USA 94.
They could be joined by defender Erland Johnsen, who had such a good game  for Chelsea in the FA Cup final, while Stig Inge Bjornebye (Liverpool), Frank  Strandli (Leeds) and Kare Ingebrigtsen (Manchester City) also have recent  English league experience.
However, probably the most influential member of the squad plies his trade  in Germany.
Werder Bremen sweeper Rune Bratseth proved himself one of the most  accomplished and stylish defenders in the world as he led Norway to their  first finals since 1938.
The 33-year-old Bratseth, who helped Werder Bremen win the European Cup  Winners' Cup in 1992, has now passed the half century mark in international  matches.
The reason so many Norwegians play abroad is because their national league  is only semi-professional. As recently as 10 years ago the majority of the  national team were part-timers.
Thorstvedt makes no bones about their individual skills.
"We are not that good individually," the goalkeeper said. "Quite a lot of  the players would struggle to get into the England team, for example. But we  have a style of play opponents don't like."
And that is what the Vikings are counting on for their first World Cup win.
They lost to Italy in their only match in 1938 but after such a successful  time at their national past-time of skiing and skating at the Lillehammer  Winter Olympics they are ready for new horizons.
