It was expected that these would be accepted by the World Motor Sports  Council of the governing body, the Federal International de l'Automobile, when  it meets in Geneva.
The rules will replace those laid down by FIA President Max Mosley in  Monaco two weeks ago, though he has insisted they meet the same overall  criteria for reducing performance and increasing safety.
He did concede, in tough negociations with the leading teams here, that  the deadlines he set might be allowed to slip. This may mean that the  introduction of "stepped" flat bottoms on the cars, a major aerodynamic change  which would require virtually new cars, will not now be brought in at  mid-season at the German Grand Prix.
It may, team sources said, be set back to the 1995 season as originally  planned.
Overall, the teams got Mosley to agree to their engineers having the  principal role in planning safety changes, and to return to the organisational  rules -- the Concorde Agreement -- which has governed the sport since 1981,  and which he openly breached at Monaco.
In exchange, they agreed to meet Mosley's broad objectives for reducing  performance and increasing safety, though possibly by different means and on a  long time scale.
The Spanish weekend also saw the drivers starting to knock their newly  formed association into shape.
They all agreed that their five-hour meeting on Thursday had been  unnecessarily long -- "it won't happen again", said Australien David Brabham  -- and much more work will be done by the key members, Niki Lauda, Gerhard  Berger, Michael Schumacher and Christian Fittipaldi.
They agreed changes to the Montreal circuit for the Canadian race in two  weeks and welcomed major work announced by Britain's Silverstone. Changes are  to be made also at Magny-Cours in France and Spa in Belgium, and other  circuits will be examined by the drivers for possible improvement.
"They do not want to eliminate fast corners," Berger said. "We just want  bigger run-off areas so that when we go off the track at 270 or 300 Kph, we do  not die".
