Fourteen years has passed since a  bloody crackdown on a pro-democracy uprising here left more than 200 dead, but  the spectre of the massacre keeps returning to haunt South Korean governments.
Thousands of protestors rallied in this southwestern city and 10 other  places across the country Tuesday, calling for the punishment of two former  presidents and others held responsible for the blood bath.
In Seoul, 12,000 riot police took position outside the presidential Blue  House, the US embassy and the residences of former presidents Chun Doo-Hwan  and Roh Tae-Woo to prevent expected street violence.
Sources close to the students said some 200 student hardliners from  Kwangju were to lead other protestors in marching on the residences of Chun  and Roh later Tuesday, an event that has traditionally ended in street  clashes.
A stream of mourners, many of them holding bouquets of flowers, clogged  the 3.2-kilometer (two mile) access road to Mangwol Cemetery in the suburban  Kwangju, where some 100 victims of the 1980 uprising were buried.
A few truckloads of students wearing military fatigues drove through the  city center in a mockup of the parade by martial law troops 14 years ago, as  5,800 riot police troops took up position at strategic places.
Earlier Tuesday, Chun and Roh found themselves being sued for the second  time in a week on charges of overturning the government and manslaughter in  the course of what is now called a military coup.
The National Alliance for Democracy and Unification of Korea (NADUK) filed  lawsuits with prosecution authorities in a dozen provincial cities nationwide,  demanding punishment of Chun and Roh and 33 other military commanders.
The NADUK claimed in a statement that the government of President Kim  Young-Sam, a former dissident, was providing protection for Chun and Roh in  return for their support for Kim during the 1992 presidential election.
It demanded that the government shed new light on the incident and reveal  who gave the first order to fire into the crowd in Kwangju.
Kim ended his three decades in the opposition and joined forces with Roh  and his ruling party to run for the presidency as the ruling Democratic  Liberal Party candidate.
After taking office last year, he publicly described the Kwangju incident  as a pro-democracy uprising and agreed to compensate for the victims.
But, he has not accepted a demand by Kwangju citizens that he designate  May 18, the day the week-long uprising started, as a national anniversary,  apparently for fear that it would hurt his power base.
The pro-opposition Hankyoreh Shinmun (newspaper) said 18 generals  currently serving in the military had been being promoted for their roles in  the crackdown.
