At least 12 foreign delegates to a banned human  rights conference on East Timor next week are in Manila despite tight  government security, organizers said Sunday.
Joel Saracho, spokesman for the Asia Pacific Conference on East Timor  (APCET) to be held from Tuesday to Friday, said the 12 included  representatives from the United States, Australia and Canada. He did not say  when they entered the country.
A court on Friday issued an order banning the private meeting, but leftist  organizers vowed to defy the ruling and risk arrest.
Saracho said more than 60 other foreign delegates were expected before the  conference starts on the campus of the state-run but autonomous University of  the Philippines.
Immigration officials at the Manila airport on Saturday expelled Irish  Nobel peace prize winner Mairead Maguire, 50, and a companion. They arrived  from Europe in defiance of an earlier government ban on foreigners attending  the meeting.
Saracho said government agents may have overlooked the 12 others since  they were not on a list, containing 36 names, to be barred from the country.  Officials said the list could be expanded any time.
The 12 are "prominent in the sense that they have been doing East Timor  advocacy for a long time," Saracho told AFP.
President Fidel Ramos, whose move to ban foreign participants has been  widely criticized here, has said that all "non-Filipino" delegates, except  journalists and exchange students, would be prevented from attending.
The East Timor conference has angered Indonesia, which accused Manila of  allowing itself to be used by the delegates to subvert Jakarta's terrirotial  integrity. It has asked Ramos to stop the seminar.
East Timor is a former Portuguese colony which Indonesian troops occupied  in 1975 and annexed the following year. International human rights groups have  accused Jakarta of alleged rampant human rights abuses in the territory.
Ramos, who said he was powerless under a democratic constutition to ban  the meeting, barred foreign participants after Jakarta threatened retaliatory  measures such as stopping to host peace talks betweeen Manila and Moslem  secessionist rebels in the south and cancelling investments.
Political commentators said that while the court ban had defused the  diplomatic crisis between Manila and Jakarta, it was a "foreign policy  disaster" for the Philippines.
"The resolution of the conflict does not erase the fact that the crisis has  left Philippine diplomacy in shambles," wrote Amando Doronila in the  Philippine Daily Inquirer.
He said it was Manila's "worst humiliation and degradation at the hands of  another country since the Japanese occupation" during World War II.
