After seven boom years, Malaysia is now  fighting inflationary pressures exacerbated by rising spending and  profiteering, analysts said Friday.
A marathon effort to fight inflation is underway through a national  campaign to be launched by Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad on Thursday, which  aims to curb excessive price hikes and get "every Malaysian consumer" to spend  less.
The inflation rate of 3.6 percent last year was considered relatively low,  given the country's 8.5-percent economic growth rate, but analysts said  soaring wages, ample liquidity and arbitrary price increases are putting  pressure on prices.
Most economists have predicted inflation will rise to 4.2 percent this  year and 4.5 percent in 1995.
"There is a psychological trend among our traders that prices of goods  must go up every few months regardless of whether there is a genuine rise in  inflation," said Ramon Navaratnam, the chief executive of Bank Buruh.
The inflationary trend was reflected by the overall 7.4-percent hike in  prices of non-controlled foodstuffs in the first quarter, compared to the  corresponding period last year, said Navaratnam.
"These price increases are domestically generated and not import-inflated.  Therefore, there should have been more countervailing action to stop them,"  Navaratnam said.
A precursor of the main anti-inflation campaign was the classification on  Wednesday of bread as a controlled item to expand an inventory of essential  consumer goods of which the price cannot be raised without government approval.
Analysts said the dynamic growth of the Malaysian economy over the last  seven years, at an average rate of eight percent a year, had led to an  estimated 70- to 100-percent surge in the income of Malaysia's middle and  upper classes since 1987.
The boom had also brought an influx of foreign funds meant for capital and  money market investments, officials said.
The Malaysian banking system alone enjoyed a surplus of 7.8 billion  ringgit (2.9 billion US) from total desposits of 9.8 billion ringgit last year  while the overall money supply grew by five percent, officials said.
Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim said last week he was confident that a  series of measures imposed by the central bank in January to mop up liquidity  and deter foreigners speculating in the ringgit would help to cap inflation.
Bank Negara, the central bank, had increased the statutory reserve  requirements (SSR) of financial institutions and disallowed commercial banks  from undertaking non-trade related swaps and foreign transactions with  foreigners under the measures.
It also imposed negative interest rates on the vostro accounts of foreign  banks here but this was revoked on Wednesday, although the SSR was raised a  further one percent to 10.5 percent to control liquidity.
"The higher SSR could effectively remove some 1.5 billion ringgit from the  financial system monthly," said Navaratnam.
