Japanese construction companies, reeling from a  series of bribery scandals, announced Thursday steep declines in earnings and  revenue for the year to March, and predicted more rough ground ahead.
The three leading contractors -- Shimizu Corp., Taisei Corp. and Kajima  Corp. -- all reported double-digit falls in pre-tax earnings and forecast  further profit declines this year. Fourth-ranked Obayashi Corp. managed to  post higher earnings but like its rivals is also bracing for lower profits  this year.
Shimizu, whose chairman Teruzo Yoshino was among three senior executives  charged with bribery in October, said its pre-tax earnings declined 10 percent  from a year earlier to 120 billion yen (1.2 billion dollars).
Japan's biggest contractor said revenue dropped four percent to 2,093  billion yen, depressed by reduced revenue from both buildng and  civil-engineering projects. New orders were down by almost a third.
Shimizu forecast a sharply lower profit of 50 billion yen for the current  year with revenue sliding even further to around 1,800 billion yen.
Taisei, which also saw some of its executives arrested on bribery charges  during the year, said its earnings dropped 28 percent from a year earlier to  73 billion yen. Revenue fell 6.5 percent to 1,850 billion yen and was  depressed in all major sectors. New orders plunged by more than a third.
For the current year, Taisei forecast a further decline in earnings to 33  billion yen on lower revenue of 1,550 billion yen.
Kajima, whose name was repeatedly dragged through the mud last year, said  its earnings tumbled 23.4 percent from a year earlier to 67.4 billion yen. The  company, which is especially strong in large-scale civil engineering, said  revenue dropped 10.4 percent to 1,751 billion yen in the same period.
The company forecast an even smaller profit of 57 billion yen for the  current year with revenue declining to 1,700 billion yen.
Kajima, which had a vice president arrested for bribing politicians in  connection with public work contracts, also announced that chairman Rokuro  Ishikawa would step down to the position of "honorary" chairman.
Ishikawa, who was questioned by prosecutors last year over his role in the  corruption scandals, has already resigned in disgrace as chairman of Japan's  Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
"We sincerely apologise for causing trouble to the public as a result of  the series of scandals," Kajima said in a statement. "We are determined to  reform the company, aiming not to be involved in scandals any more."
Obayashi, also implicated in the bribery scandals, said its earnings rose  18 percent to 57.7 billion yen on revenue of 1,635 billion yen, up seven  percent. But for the current year, it forecast a smaller profit of 42 billion  yen on lower sales of 1,450 billion yen.
The corruption scandals which rocked Japan last year also led to the  arrests of one member of parliament, two local governors and two city mayors,  helping to drive the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) -- already tainted by its  own corruption scandals -- out of power for the first time in four decades.
In addition, the scandals depressed the implementation of various public  works programs given that many contractors were reluctant to be seen getting  bribes for big projects. New orders for public works projects received by the  four companies last year dropped by more than a third.
