Spanish football reaches boiling point this weekend  as the last day proves decisive for the third year running amid rumours of  corruption.
Deportivo La Coruna, at home to Valencia, are a point ahead of Johan  Cruyff's Barcelona, who entertain UEFA Cup hopefuls Sevilla at the Nou Camp  stadium.
Spanish press is speculating over alleged handouts to Valencia players  from mysterious Catalonian intermediaries. Two years ago press reports claimed  Tenerife players were payed from a Barcelona source for their last-ditch home  victory over Real Madrid which handed Barcelona the title.
History repeated itself last season when Tenerife beat Madrid, again on  the last day, to bring Barcelona their third consecutive championship. And the  press once again claimed Barcelona backers had made illicit payments.
Further controversy has come about over the timing of the matches of both  Deportivo and Barcelona. The Spanish federation has brought forward those  fixtures, and the Athletic Bilbao-Tenerife match to Saturday at 8:30pm (1830  GMT).
La Coruna president Cesar Augusto Lendoiro complained bitterly, saying  Sunday tickets have been on sale for weeks.
Lendoiro agreed Barcelona should be able to alter their schedule because  they play in the European Cup final against AC Milan in Athens next Wednesday.
But, realising Deportivo would have a distinct advantage should the  Catalonians play a day earlier, Lendoiro has appealed to the Spanish  federation, and may even resort to legal action.
Deportivo are understandably wary about any possible outside influences.
Deportivo have won nothing in their history while Barcelona have won 13  Spanish league championships, 22 Spanish Cups, plus eight European crowns.
Should Deportivo carry off the title, it will be mainly thanks to 16-goal  Brazilian striker Bebeto, and the meanest defence in the league which has  conceded just 18 goals in 37 matches.
Barcelona were boosted by the happy outcome to the kidnapping of Romario's  father which allowed the Brazilian to concentrate on football.
Rio de Janeiro police freed him after a massive manhunt lasting six days.
Benfica cross the city to Sporting Lisbon in a top-of-the-table clash in  Portugal. Sporting, a point behind, will go top with four matches remaining if  they win.
Bobby Robson's Porto, three points behind Benfica, are away to  sixth-placed Vitoria Guimaraes.
Montpellier, who knocked out Olympique Marseille on their way to the  final, face Auxerre for the French Cup.
Montpellier beat Lens, conquerors of champions Paris St Germain, while  Auxerre beat Nantes in the semi-finals.
Montpellier won the Cup at their first attempt in 1990. Auxerre's only  appearance in the final was in 1979 when they were still in the second  division. They lost to Nantes after extra-time.
