President Kamuzu Banda, who has ruled Malawi for  three decades, bowed out graciously on Thursday in favour of Moslem  businessman Bakili Muzuli after the country's first multi-party elections.
Muluzi, the leader of the opposition United Democratic Front (UDF), was a  clear winner of Tuesday's presidential poll, Banda conceded in a state radio  broadcast at 9:00 a.m. (0700 GMT), before official results were released.
News of Muluzi's victory brought hundreds of chanting and car-hooting UDF  supporters out on to the streets of Blantyre, the economic capital of the  small, poor southern African nation.
"This is the real freedom we have been waiting for," one labourer,  Kondwani Phiri, said as he downed his tools and rushed to the UDF headquarters  here. "We have finally shown Banda the exit door."
Muluzi failed to address journalists on Thursday morning, but his aide  Brown Mpinganjira said he "has been busy" and would give a press conference at  1:00 p.m. (1100 GMT) at his residence.
Calm and magnanimous in defeat, Banda who is officially 89 (eds: correct)  but believed to be well into his 90s, said: "I wish him well as he takes up  the challenging assignment as president of Malawi."
"I wish to assure him that (my) Malawi Congress Party will work with the  UDF government in building a better democratic Malawi," Banda said, adding  that he would offer Muluzi his full support and cooperation.
It was time to "bury all political differences and work together for a  united Malawi," he said, calling on his supporters to "accept the defeat  honourably and gracefully."
At the same time he urged UDF supporters to celebrate with sympathy and  understanding, and not with vengeance.
Banda, who ruled a one-party state with an autocratic hand until domestic  unrest, foreign pressure and a referendum forced him to bow to democratic  change, thanked Malawians for "allowing me to be your leader for 31 years."
Once he had vowed that nobody else would ever govern Malawi "as long as I  am alive."
