The Nigerian military regime has made further  efforts to prevent a boycott of elections next week to a constitutional  conference to begin in June as part of its declared aim of restoring democracy.
The government has sent Yoruba members in the cabinet to the ethnic Yoruba  heartland in the southwest, in a bid to win support from key traditional  rulers in the region, where the boycott call has been intensified.
The deputy president, Lieutenant-General Oladipo Diya, on Wednesday told  the Romanian ambassador here that the government was "irrevocably" committed  to a civilian handover, press reports said.
The military has declared Monday a public holiday in a bid to encourage  voters to turn out en masse to elect delegates to a constitutional conference,  amid warnings of a boycott.
The government has taken steps to ensure the success of Monday's vote, in  which it wants Nigeria's 30 states and the federal capital territory, Abuja,  to choose electoral colleges.
These in turn will select, in separate polls May 28, a total of 273  delegates to attend the conference. The government itself plans to make 96  appointments to the body.
The ward elections had previously been planned for Saturday, but were  pushed forward by two days because the date clashed with the Moslem feast of  Eid-el-Kabir (Abraham and Isaac).
On Tuesday, Nigeria's Anglican archbishop, Abiodun Adetiloye, called on  the regime to hand over power to "democratically elected" president Moshood  Abiola, presumed winner of a vote annulled last year.
General Sani Abacha, who seized power last November, has pledged to  restore civilian rule and declared that the conference will be a step on the  way, but the pro-democracy opposition has called for a boycott.
The conference, slated to begin on June 27, is to deal with the nation's  problems, including threats to the unity of Nigeria, where leaders of the  mainly Ibo southeast have warned of secession.
In an open letter Adetiloye, who enjoys considerable prestige, told  Abacha: "My dear general, now is the time for you to bow out honourably. If  you cannot see the hand-writing on the wall and bow out, the end may be  inglorious."
Abiola, a Moslem millionaire businessman, is generally held to have won a  presidential election organised by the previous military regime on June 12  last year and adjudged by international observers to have been free and fair.
But then head of state General Ibrahim Babangida annulled the vote,  alleging irregularities, and in August handed over to an unelected civilian  administration which Abacha overthrew. Abacha abolished all the country's  democratic institutions, including the two legal political parties.
Adelitoye called on Abacha to "disannul the annulment, install the  democratically elected president and bow out in honour as the hero of the  decade."
Of a population of some 88 million, Anglicans were in 1990 estimated to  number 10 million. About 19 million Nigerians are declared Christians and 26  million are Moslems.
On Monday, Nigeria's newest political movement urged the regime to call on  Abiola to form a broad-based government by the end of May.
The National Democratic Coalition, set up last Friday despite a ban on  political gatherings since Abacha took power, said Nigerians should boycott  the conference and several candidates have pulled out.
The Campaign for Democracy, a coalition of some 40 pro-democracy and human  rights groups, is planning three days of protest ceremonies as from June 12 to  mark the first anniversary of the annulment of the poll.
People will be asked to wear black in mourning, and church services and  candlelight processions will be staged in major cities, the campaign's  secretary-general Sylvester Odion-Akhaine said Monday.
