South Korea Sunday hinted at easing barriers for its  people wanting to make personal contacts with North Korea following reports of  an overnight decision by Washington to resume high-level talks with the North.
The government is considering allowing inter-Korean contact at a private  level for such purposes as academic, religious, cultural and sporting events,  the national news agency Yonhap said.
The agency quoted "a senior official" as saying Seoul might also propose  Red Cross talks with the North to discuss the possible reunification of  divided familes once North Korea and the United States started their meetings.
An estimated 10 million people on both sides of the heavily fortified  demilitarized zone that divides the two Koreas have been cut off for 40 years  from relatives on the other side.
Many first-generation relatives have died without hope of a thaw in the  Cold War that would allow them to make contact with parents, wives and  children. The (South) Korean Red Cross says most were separated accidentally,  scattered by the seesawing of the front lines during the 1950-53 Korean War.
At present there are no civilian phone links, no letters can be sent, and  all contacts require government permission.
Analysts here saw discussion of the moves as reflecting the government's  anxiety to get ahead with the gradual first steps towards peaceful unification  of the two Koreas, divided at the 38th parallel in 1948.
However, they held out more hope for business contacts between South  Korean companies wanting to set up business in North Korea's new economic  zones than for the divided families, given the deep distrust between the two  Koreas.
The only family reunification attempt since the 1950-53 Korean War was in  September of 1985, when 151 people were taken to each of the capitals. The  exchange was considered only partially successful.
In addition, Yonhap cautioned that the government would "firmly oppose  inter-Korean contacts that have a political purpose and could be used by North  Korea to stir up anti-government sentiment."
North Korea currently issues visas by "invitation" and most South Korean  academics who have been to the North have done so in the context of  international conferences.
A formal North-South dialogue collapsed in March when the chief delegates  of both sides got into a verbal slugging match in which the North Korean  delegate warned that Pyongyang's conventional army could turn Seoul into "a  sea of fire."
The New York Times said Washington had decided at a senior meeting on  Friday to resume its high-level talks with Pyongyang, and Yonhap in a  Washington datelined dispatch quoted a US official as saying the talks would  take place "very soon."
The Yonhap dispatch, however, said the resumption decision had yet to be  formally communicated to Pyongyang, and that it was still contingent on no  last-minute glitches arising in International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)  inspections at the North's suspected nuclear complex in Yongbyon.
The high-level talks ground to a halt earlier this year when the US felt  North Korea was not living up to its obligations under the Nuclear  Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).
It was the North's threat to withdraw from the treaty 14 months ago that  drew Washington into the talks, at which a package deal was hammered out,  trading the North's nuclear transparency for eventual recognition and aid from  Washington.
