A 19-year-old youth was charged Monday  with serious public order offences relating to an attack by skinheads on a  group of Aricans in the eastern German town of Magdeburg, the state public  prosecutor announced.
The youth, believed to be one of the ringleaders of the violence, was the  first person charged in connection with the rioting. He was remanded after  reportedly being positively identified by several witnesses.
The prosecutor said enquiries were continuing into who else was involved  in the attack. In all, 20 people have so far been identified by independent  witnesses.
Police had Thursday detained 49 people but released all of them within  hours for lack of evidence. The releases sparked widespread public  condemnation at the authorities' failure to crack down effectively on the  hoodlums.
Police said up to 150 young racists had taken part in the rioting, in  which at least three people were injured.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's ruling Christian Democrats (CDU) meanwhile failed  Monday to call an extraordinary session of a parliamentary legislation  commission which they want to draw up a package of tougher penalties for those  found guilty of racist attacks and give police power to detain suspects longer  without charge.
The secretariat of the Bundestag lower house said the discussion had been  postponed to an ordinary session scheduled for Wednesday.
The CDU wants the right to keep suspects in preventative detention without  charge to be fixed at a week and to increase jail terms from three to five  years for violent behaviour.
An aide to the head of the legislation commission, Horst Eylmann, said the  discussions on introducing the prospective measures were already under way  before the Magdeburg incident, but had taken on new significance.
But Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger and her party the  Liberal Democrats, a junior government coalition member, are opposed to  beefing up the state's power to crack down on the criminals, saying existing  laws should be applied properly.
With parliamentary elections due in the autumn, the CDU is looking to  present itself as the party of law and order, whilst the FDP wants to  consolidate its image of a defender of civil liberties.
