The Dominican Republic's plans for a  presidential vote recount hit a potentially explosive snag Tuesday, with the  electoral board refusing to give opposition parties official voting lists.
Faced with opposition charges of fraud and international observers'  confirmations of irregularities, the electoral board had announced Saturday a  vote-by-vote recount of ballots cast in the May 16 presidential election.
The recount scheduled to start Wednesday was urged by the top opposition  candidate, Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, who charged that nearly 200,000  registered voters expected to support him were unable to vote as they were  taken off voting lists though their voter identification cards were in order.
Pena Gomez is a 57-year-old politician who hopes to become the country's  first black president this century.
His leading challenger is President Joaquin Balaguer, the blind  87-year-old incumbent seeking a seventh term in office.
Supporters of Balaguer, who is white, have fuelled rumors that Pena Gomez  secretly seeks to merge the country with its overwhelmingly black and poorer  neighbor, Haiti. Most Dominicans are of mixed African and European ancestry.
Balaguer was ahead by 1.01 percent when the tally was stopped last week  with 97.6 percent of the ballots counted.
The daily Hoy has reported that data given to the public give Balaguer  1,236,107 votes, while computer diskettes also from the electoral board only  give him 899,860.
No winner was announced pending action by the electoral board, and no  serious incidents have taken place since the count was stopped.
But 30 people were killed in politically motivated violence during the  heated campaign to lead this Caribbean country of seven million people to the  east of Haiti, on Hispaniola island.
Balaguer has said the presidential and legislative elections were free and  fair, but that he would accept any decision by the electoral board including a  new round of voting.
On Tuesday Pena Gomez stressed that holding new elections was the most  honorable response to the tense situation, and urged Balaguer to press the  electoral board judges who support him to ensure that action was taken soon.  Three of the five judges reportedly are staunch allies of the president.
"Faced with this delicate situation, take the appropriate steps to ensure  a peaceful resolution of the current electoral crisis ... which if not settled  in time will cause serious economic, political and moral damage," Pena Gomez  wrote in a letter to Balaguer.
But the electoral board's chairman Manuel Garcia Lizardo appeared to reject  the idea of a new election flatly, saying "the people already have voted."
Making matters worse, the board said Tuesday it would not provide  opposition parties with copies of the government's official voting lists for  comparison with other lists used, something seen as essential for a successful  recount.
And the situation was growing increasingly tense Tuesday as the public  readied for a peaceful "day of prayer" to protest the alleged fraud, called by  Pena Gomez for Wednesday.
Army troops already were patrolling Tuesday outside churches here to  prevent any possible disturbances. Pena Gomez has called for pot-banging, a  traditional Latin American protest, and the lighting of candles in the  demonstration expected to begin in earnest after Dominicans end their work day.
The country's economy is heavily dependent on the 1.2 billion dollar per  year tourist industry, which Pena Gomez said could be crippled by damage to  the country's image abroad if the election troubles were not dealt with soon.
