Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi dimissed  calls Wednesday to dump five neo-fascists from his cabinet as he headed for a  tightrope vote of confidence in the Senate.
"I cannot accept a different government," Berlusconi said during Senate  debate due to culminate later in the evening in a vote on Italy's 53rd  post-war government.
Berlusconi insisted that the rightist coalition that swept watershed  general elections nearly two months ago was the product of a new  majority-style electoral law and that to dump coalition partners would flout  voters' wishes.
"For the government to change there would have to be new elections," he  told the Senate, appealing for the go-ahead to be Italy's next premier.
Conservative and centrist senators had appealed to Berlusconi, a  media-magnate turned politician, to get rid of the five members of the  neo-fascist National Alliance in his government.
These senators could play a pivotal role because Berlusconi's government  is eight votes short of an absolute majority of the 324 senators.
If Berlusconi fails to muster the needed votes, his government would  collapse, forcing President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro to ask him either to form a  new cabinet or call new elections that could plunge the country into crisis.
But analysts and the Italian media said that scenario was unlikely as  Italy's former Christian Democrat leaders who hold the deciding Senate votes  would not want to be blamed for such a crisis.
They said Berlusconi's best chance of winning the vote was if several of  the opposing senators from the Italian Popular Party (PPI), the former  Christian Democrats, simply walk out of the room, as several have hinted they  may do.
Under Senate voting rules, Berlusconi needs a majority of the Senators  present, not of all the seats in the chamber.
Christian-Democratic Senator Luigi Grillo has called for a "technical  abstention" in order to allow the new cabinet to begin operating.
Meanwhile another senator, Pietro Giurickovic, from the small leftist  Democratic Alliance, claimed that Berlusconi's Forza Italia party had promised  him the presidency of a parliamentary commission if he helped the government  win the confidence vote.
He said he declined the offer which was made even before Berlusconi had  picked his cabinet members.
Forza Italia, Berlusconi's party, has denied the report.
Observers said even if Berlusconi wins the confidence vote Wednesday, his  government faces a tug of war with the opposition everytime it needs to pass  legislation through the Senate.
Forza Italia and its coalition partners, the federalist Northern League  and the National Alliance, hold an absolute majority in the lower chamber of  parliament.
Nicola Mancino, the head of the PPI which holds 34 seats in the Senate, on  Tuesday proposed that Berlusconi break with the National Alliance and form a  new coalition government with the centrist and some center-left parties.
Mancino said the National Alliance, created by Gianfranco Fini, the  general secretary of the neo-fascist Italian Social Movement, was "a source of  concern."
He also called on Berlusconi to divest himself of private business  interests within "one or two months at the most" in order to limit any  conflicts of interest for Berlusconi, one of Italy's richest people.
Berlusconi's Fininvest communications group is Italy's second largest  business with interests ranging from television and the media to the AC Milan  football club.
In a policy statement to parliament on Monday, Berlusconi conceded  "legitimate concerns" over the presence of the neo-fascists in his cabinet,  but pledged his right-wing coalition would adhere to Italy's democratic  structures.
