With President Joaquin Balaguer within a  hare's breath of victory Wednesday in presidential elections here, election  officials stopped the vote count to consider fraud charges brought by the  leading opposition candidate.
The Central Election Board said it was suspending its final report  declaring a winner in Monday's presidential election until it has considered a  suit by social democratic candidate Jose Francisco Pena Gomez contesting the  results.
After a day of high tension, fed by fears of a violent opposition  backlash, the capital slowly began returning to normal Wednesday.
Elite army troops armed with assault rifles and police, who were out in  force Tuesday, guarded government buildings and the headquarters of the  Central Election Board Wednesday but in smaller numbers.
So far the election has proceeded without violence, but at least 30 people  were killed in partisan clashes during the campaign.
Balaguer earlier denied the charges that as many as 200,000 voters were  denied the opportunity to vote after their names were stricken from  computerized voting lists.
"There has been no fraud. The elections have been clean and pure," he told  local newspapers.
But two international observer groups also reported serious  irregularities, backing the allegations by Pena Gomez, who accused the  election board of engaging in "blatant fraud" by tampering with voter lists.
With nearly 95 percent of the vote counted, Balaguer held a narrow lead   over Pena Gomez, 57, a populist firebrand and candidate of the Dominican  Revolutionary Party (PRD).
The returns showed the incumbent with 42.57 percent of the vote to 41.16  for Pena Gomez.
If the results are confirmed, the 87-year-old Balaguer will have captured  the Dominican presidency for the seventh time, extending his preeminence over  the local political scene into another four-year term.
It was not clear how long the election board would have to act on Pena  Gomez' challenge, which was formally filed Wednesday.
"He is determined not to let our victory be hijacked," PRD official Rafael  Taveras said of Pena Gomez. "We are going to undertake all the actions  necessary, by civic means, to stop this scandalous fraud."
The US-based National Democratic Institute for Democratic Affairs reported  irregularities as did observers from the Socialist International, to which the  PRD is affiliated and which monitored the vote at the PRD's invitation.
