Indian cigarette maker ITC Ltd. has  declared an 85-percent dividend and a one-for-one bonus for its shareholders  after a surge in sales and profits during fiscal 1993-94.
Sales in the year to March 31 increased 12.4 percent over fiscal 1992-93  to 42.8 billion rupees (about 1.42 billion dollars) and after-tax profits rose  33 percent to 2.06 billion rupees (68 million dollars).
Foreign exchange earnings were up 34 percent at the equivalent of 8.2  billion rupees (274 million dollars).
The results were announced in a statement here Wednesday after a meeting  of the firm's board of directors, which set a 25-to-30 percent growth target  for the current financial year.
The board recommended a steep 20-percent increase in the 1992-93 dividend  payout of 65 percent and topped it with a bonus in a windfall for shareholders.
It was the third time in five years that ITC -- India's leading tobacco  company with interests in hotels, edible oils and paper -- had declared a  bonus despite the risk of servicing an enlarged equity base.
Financial institutions, which have a 38-percent holding in the firm, stand  to benefit the most from the announcement, expected also to mark up ITC's  global depositary receipts (GDRs) listed overseas.
The impressive results were made public two weeks after ITC chief  executive K.L. Chugh announced that British tobacco giant BAT Industries plc  had dropped a move to acquire a controlling stake in the blue-chip company.
BAT has a 31-percent holding in ITC, which has set its sights on becoming  India's first multinational and joining the Fortune 500 list on its own.
Chugh has described ITC, which dominates India's cigarette market with its  Wills, Gold Flake and Classic brands, as part of the country's corporate  heritage and has likened BAT's buyout bid to an attempted takeover of the Taj  Mahal.
It would cost the British firm about one billion dollars to lift 20  percent of ITC stock at its current market value to acquire control of the  company, whose Indian management has in the past 25 years built it into a  diversified group.
In a statement after announcing the results, Chugh restated his ambition of  making ITC a global corporate player.
Strong Indian companies should "go overseas with their products and  services as India's flag bearers," he said.
"I believe ITC has the attribute of being one such flag bearer for India."
