Russian writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn  arrived home Friday from 20 years in exile, returning, he said, to a "tortured  Russia" that offered no clear future to its citizens.
The 75-year-old (eds correct) Nobel prize-winning author flew into this  far eastern port city after brief stopovers in Magadan, the heartland of the  Soviet Gulag prison camps, and Khabarovsk, for a few days' stay before  starting a train journey across his homeland.
Though he confessed to being "a little tired" after 48 hours in the air  without sleep, he kept a promise to address crowds of wellwishers.
"I feel redoubled pain for Russia's last two years which have been so very  trying for people in their lives and spirits," he told some 4,000 people  gathered in the center of town in his first public address to his countrymen.
"I know that your present life is extremely and unusually tough, entangled  in a myriad of mishaps and that there is no clear future for you and your  children."
"I know that I am returning to a Russia tortured, stunned, altered beyond  recognition, convulsively searching for itself, for its own true identity," he  said.
The arrival of the author, one of the Soviet Union's most celebrated  dissidents, ended his 20-year exile that began when he was expelled in 1974  for writing "Gulag Archipelago", an epic chronicle of the horrors in Soviet  labour camps where Solzhenitzyn himself spent time.
He flew in from Anchorage, Alaska, with his wife Natalia, mother-in-law  and two of his three sons, ready to make a cross-country trip to Moscow where  he will live in a downtown apartment until construction on a countryhome is  finished.
He was greeted here by black-robed Orthodox priests in homage to the  religious conscience that permeates his work, and embraced his eldest son  Yermoly, who arrived in Vladivostok Wednesday to prepare for his father's  arrival.
Solzhenistyn told the crowd he was eager to see post-communist Russia and  to understand the profound changes that have taken place since the fall of the  Soviet regime he so sharply condemned.
"Everywhere I go, I hope to meet and listen to local residents, so as to  test or revise my own judgement," he stated.
