Nigeria's Anglican archbishop, Abiodun Adetiloye,  called Tuesday on the military regime to hand over power to "democratically  elected" president Moshood Abiola, presumed winner of a vote annulled last  year.
In an open letter published by the press, Adetiloye told General Sani  Abacha, who seized power in November: "My dear general, now is the time for  you to bow out honourably. If you cannot see the hand-writing on the wall and  bow out, the end may be inglorious."
Abiola, a Moslem millionaire businessman, is generally held to have won a  civilian presidential election organised by the previous military regime on  June 12 last year and adjudged by international observers to have been free  and fair.
But then head of state General Ibrahim Babangida annulled the vote,  alleging irregularities, and in August handed over to an unelected civilian  administration which Abacha overthrew. Abacha abolished all the country's  democratic institutions, including the two legal political parties.
Adelitoye, who enjoys considerable prestige in Nigeria, called on Abacha  to "disannul the annulment, install the democratically elected president and  bow out in honour as the hero of the decade. Otherwise ... you would have led  the country into a disastrous revolution from which we may never emerge as one  country."
Of a population of some 88 million, Anglicans were in 1990 estimated to  number 10 million. About 19 million Nigerians are declared Christians and 26  million are Moslems.
The archbishop's letter was published a day after Nigeria's newest  political movement urged the regime to call on Abiola to form a broad-based  government by the end of May.
The National Democratic Coalition, set up last Friday despite a ban on  political gatherings since Abacha took power, said Nigerians should boycott a  constitutional conference the authorities have planned for June 27.
"The military government is not qualified by its antecedents, disposition  and track record, and has no moral standing whatsoever to organise a proper  sovereign national conference as desired by Nigerians," the movement said in a  communique.
It added: "The oft-repeated claim by successive military administrations  that civilians are to engage in a democratic learning process established and  supervised by the military is fraudulent and insulting."
The Campaign for Democracy, a coalition of some 40 pro-democracy and human  rights groups, is planning three days of protest ceremonies as from June 12 to  mark the first anniversary of the annulment of the poll.
People will be asked to wear black in mourning, and church services and  candlelight processions will be staged in major cities, the campaign's  secretary-general Sylvester Odion-Akhaine said Monday.
