Xoliswa Falati, who was convicted with Winnie  Mandela on kidnapping and assault charges, has threatened to "expose more  atrocities" about the estranged wife of President Nelson Mandela, City Press  newspaper said Sunday.
Warning in an interview with the weekly that she was about to blow the  whistle at a press conference, Falati added: "There is going to be a  hurricane. I have living witnesses."
She said she was not safe keeping quiet nor safe speaking out. "So I will  speak."
Mandela, appointed 10 days ago as Deputy Minister of Arts, Culture,  Science and Technology, was convicted in 1991 with her driver, John Morgan,  and Falati of kidnapping and assault.
The charges arose out of the abduction of four Soweto youths and the  subsequent killing of 14-year-old Stompie Moeketsi Sepei at Mandela's Soweto  home in December 1988.
The supreme court sentenced Mandela to six years in prison, but this was  reduced to a 15,000 rand (4,500 dollar) fine by the appeal court last June.
Falati, however, was made to serve part of a one-year prison sentence, a  fact which she bitterly resents.
Formerly close friends, Falati and Mandela fell out while they were  appealing their convictions, Falati told City Press, which circulates mainly  in black areas.
She said that a misunderstanding arose over funds for the appeal, which  left her feeling that she was being made to take the rap alone.
Nelson Mandela eventually intervened and secured funds for her appeal,  which she lost.
Recently freed from prison, Falati said she felt it was her duty, now that  Mandela was holding a powerful ministry post, to go public with everthing she  knew.
Mandela's lawyers have sent a letter to Falati giving her until noon (1000  GMT) Monday to give a written undertaking that she will desist from "further  insulting, undermining and defamatory statements" about Mandela as well an  undertaking that she will not call a press conference.
According to the newspaper, Falati remained defiant, however, and was  determined to go ahead with her plans.
Winnie Mandela separated from her husband in April 1992 after newspapers  published a love letter she allegedly wrote to a young lawyer.
