Unions representing thousands of BBC technicians  and journalists will discuss plans Wednesday for further industrial action,  after a 24-hour walkout over pay and hours wrecked radio and TV programmes.
The unions have promised two strikes each week, with the next on Friday,  until their demands are met.
They are protesting over a new employment package the corporation is  seeking to introduce aimed at improving competitiveness, which includes  performance-related pay.
Tuesday's strike, the first at the BBC since 1989, was supported by almost  all the 11,000 BBC members of the National Union of Journalists (NUJ) and the  Broadcasting Entertainment Cinematograph and Theatre Union (Bectu) -- almost  half of the corporation's staff -- it was reported.
It prevented broadcast of Radio 4's flagship morning news programme Today  for only the third time since its launch in 1957.
But despite severe disruption of news and current affairs coverage on  television and radio, a combination of repeats and news bulletins prepared by  managers prevented screens going blank and certain leading TV newscasters did  not join the strike.
The BBC is insisting the measures are necessary to improve its efficiency  and the changes will safeguard jobs by enabling it to compete with other  broadcasting organisations.
Union members argue they will reduce pay and introduce inferior working  conditions.
BBC Director General John Birt Wednesday defended the planned shake-up.
"To protect jobs and to give BBC departments a better chance to keep the  work, we are asking people to give up the special payments," he wrote in an  article for Wednesday's Daily Mirror.
The changes were needed because the BBC was falling behind other companies  in keeping programme prices down, he added.
Blaming the BBC's system of special payments and allowances to staff for  bumping up prices, he cited increased competition from independent television  and radio companies, along with cable and satellite TV stations, as the reason  for the overhaul.
BBC management is seeking further talks with the unions.
