Ajello
MAPUTO, May 13 (AFP) - The head of the UN mission in Mozambique, Aldo  Ajello, gave a heavily critical assessment Friday of the peace process here  ahead of October elections, the first slated after 16 years of civil war.
Ajello said he was dissatisfied with virtually all aspects of the peace  process, attacked delays in demobilisation and warned organisational problems  which had hit South Africa's recent poll boded ill for underdeveloped  Mozambique.
"There is no progress with assembly of troops, we've wasted time with  demobilisation and we still have serious problems with forming a new national  army," Ajello said.
He said he was calling a meeting of Mozambique's main peacekeeping  committee next week to discuss these problems and the UN's latest resolution,  which is to reduce its Mozambican peacekeeping mission (ONUMOZ) by 2,000  soldiers immediately and terminate the mandate completely on November 15.
The government called a halt to demobilisation of its forces three weeks  ago, claiming the Mozambique National Resistance (RENAMO) opposition was not  keeping pace with the process.
"Unfortunately, by the time they made that announcement, RENAMO was  already catching up," Ajello said.
He added that the government apparently needed time to correct its lists  of soldiers, as some names were marked down both for demobilisation and for  joining the new national army.
ONUMOZ now has names of 2,459 RENAMO fighters from the 4,000 due to be  demobilised, against 17,593 names from the government.
The government was originally expected to discharge 62,00 soldiers but now  claims it only had some 50,00 soldiers to demobilise.
Ajello dismissed government claims that ONUMOZ "misunderstood" the number  of soldiers it presented, saying: "There was no confusion nor any  misunderstanding on our side.
"Anyone can make a mistake including the government, the only thing to do  is admit and correct it."
He added that he would accept the new government figures, despite RENAMO's  suspicion that the government was hiding troops instead of demobilising them.
Ajello also made a public apology for the mistakes of the least succesful  aspect the ONUMOZ operation -- clearing landmines from the country.
"We've made an incredible bureaucratic mess," he said, admitting this had   delayed for more than 18 months the removal of hundreds of thousands of mines  planted during the war.
A key UN contract to clear some 2,000 kilometers of suspected mined road  has yet to be signed.
At least 200 people have suffered landmine injuries this year alone,  according to non-governmental organisations here.
Ajello suggested ONUMOZ made a mistake when it subjected mine-clearance  plans to approval from Mozambique's peace process committees - which failed to  function properly until a year after Mozambique's October 1992 peace accord -  and to a heavy-handed bureacracy in New York.
"This is a perfect story of how things should not be done," he said.
Ajello said the logistical mess and political goodwill surrounding South  Africa's elections offered vital lessons for Mozambique.
"Given South Africa's far better communications and technical capacity,  its grave logistical problems with organising elections are a very bad sign  for Mozambique."
However, he said, "the political will which helped overcome these problems  and the happy ending of the process in South Africa should be a lesson to all  of us here."
