Smugglers were boldly lugging jugs of  gasoline and kerosene across the Dominican border into Haiti Sunday, hours  after new, tighter UN trade sanctions took effect.
Just before the trade sanctions were imposed at midnight to try to press  the country's military rulers to step aside, army-backed provisional President  Emile Jonassaint ordered the Justice Ministry to prosecute anyone organizing  trips for Haitians trying to flee for the United States.
The military ousted democratically elected President Jean-Bertrand  Aristide in a September 1991 coup. The tighter UN embargo is the latest  diplomatic bid to break Haiti's political deadlock and arrange for Aristide's  return.
The near-total embargo, which excludes food, medicine, cooking fuel and  humanitarian aid, though aimed at the military is expected to put the pinch on  the huge numbers of poor in Haiti.
Thousands will lose jobs as factories here are forced to shut their doors,  unable to sell their output.
Estimates place the number of unemployed due to the sanctions at 200,000,  which first began in 1991 with an embargo imposed by the Organization of  American States. Unemployment now tops 60 percent in Haiti.
Humanitarian and religious groups report more than six thousand people  have died since the earliest sanctions took hold, most notably women, infants,  elderly and the sick.
And the new sanctions come in addition to a nine-month-old arms and oil  embargo, which smugglers have violated with ease from the neighboring  Dominican Republic.
People toting small plastic containers full of oil walked across the  border Sunday in Malpasse and other areas, or took small boats across Lake  Azui, which separates the two countries on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola.
Port-au-Prince was a hive of activity ahead of the midnight deadline  Saturday as shippers hustled to move out hundreds of containers loaded with  merchandise from orders placed months ago, before the UN deadline for the  military to step down.
The UN Security Council also has banned visas for members of the military  and ordered a freeze on their assets overseas.
US Vice President Al Gore dismissed concerns Sunday about the continued  flow of contraband fuel over the border despite US efforts to get the  Dominican Republic to enforce the sanctions.
"I think it's premature to discount the effectiveness of these tough new  sanctions," he said in an interview with CBS television.
He added that the United States was discussing with the Dominican Republic  how to secure the border.
"We want to plug those leaks and we're undertaking measures to do that,"  Gore said. He said he would not describe the US effort as "threatening" the  Dominicans to comply.
A statement issued by the government late Saturday said Jonaissant, who  was installed by the military last week despite international protests, has  ordered the courts to enforce an 1980 decree which calls for prosecuting  anyone organizing trips for potential refugees.
The numbers of Haitians seeking asylum in the United States has risen  sharply in the past few weeks following US President Bill Clinton's  announcement of a change in the policy of immediately repatriating those  picked up at sea.
The policy shift, which will allow refugees to have their requests  processed at sea or in third countries, has not gone into effect but sources  here say it has prompted many to attempt the trip.
Two Ukrainian ships have been leased for the new procedure by the United  States, which has also approached Britain about using the Turks and Caicos  islands for asylum application processing camps.
