Italian opposition parties united against Prime  Minister Silvio Berlusconi's political program Tuesday, heightening the  chances he might not win a critical vote of confidence vote in the Senate on  Wednesday.
Berlusconi made a strong bid to attract the conservative vote when he  presented his program to the Senate on Monday, conceding what he called  "legitimate concerns" over the presence of five neo-fascists in his cabinet  but pledging his right-wing coalition would adhere to Italy's democratic  structures.
But he was still eight voices short of an absolute majority of the 324  senators one day before the vote.
Berlusconi was said to be hoping for backing from some of Italy's life  senators after one of them, FIAT president Gianni Agnelli, announced he would  support Berlusconi because he had outlined a "good" economic program.
But barring a last-minute change, the media-tycoon-turned-politician  appeared unlikely to win over his main target, members of the Popular Party,  the former Christian Democrats who were Italy's long-time rulers until their  credibility was decimated by the country's "clean hands" corruption probe.
Berlusconi, who announced his government last week after his three-party  coalition won the March elections, needs the backing for his government from  both chambers of parliament.
It has a majority in the lower chamber.
But the former Christian Demcrats in the Senate made it clear that his  appeal had failed to convince them -- either about his program or his cabinet.
The sole dissident in their ranks was Senator Luigi Grillo, who warned his  colleagues: "We cannot run the risk of returning to the ballot box. We must  allow Berlusconi to win the vote of confidence -- even if it means leaving at  the moment of the vote," he said.
Observers on Tuesday suggested his proposal -- a technical way to spare  Italy's 53rd post-World War II government a vote of no-confidence -- might  provide an easy-out for some of the conservative senators.
The majority in the Senate is calculated on the number of members present  for a vote and not on the total 324 senators.
But this still left the senators on the left against the government. They  have denounced Berlusconi's program as only a list of vague ideas with any  concrete proposals for implementation and remain highly suspicious of the  neo-fascist presence.
Berlusconi was thought to have suffered a setback Monday with the  defection of Senator Gianfranco Miglio from the Northern League, one of the  right-wing coalition partners.
Miglio said Tuesday he would still give his support -- if not whole-hearted  -- to the prime minister. "When you have to take castor oil, do it quickly and  then you don't have time to think about it," he said.
Analysts Monday had attributed Miglio's defection to anger at not being  nominated to head the ministry of institutional reform in the incoming  government.
Miglio on Tuesday accused Northern League chief Umberto Bossi of having  made federalism -- the key tenant of the insurgent Northern League -- "a  simple alibi" to quench his thirst for power and get his party into the  government.
Other than the Northern League, the coalition includes Berlusconi's Forza  Italia and the National Alliance of neo-fascist Gianfranco Fini.
Bossi and Fini have warned the senators that if they fail to deliver the  confidence vote fresh elections would be staged next month.
