Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, the Italian media  magnate turned politician, had a decisive battle ahead of him on Monday in the  Senate, where he lacks a majority.
The upper house of parliament has 326 seats, so Berlusconi needed the  backing of 164 of them at the very least in order to win the vote of  confidence due to be taken on Wednesday evening.
But he can count on only 156 senators for sure, belonging to his coalition  which won the March general election. The coalition includes Berlusconi's  Forza Italia, the pro-autonomy Northern League under Umberto Bossi, the  National Alliance founded by Gianfranco Fini, leader of the neo-fascist  Italian Social Movement, and the small Christian Democratic Center.
In a preliminary bid to win the other senators over, Berlusconi wrote an  open letter to the Senate, printed in Monday'e edition of the newspaper  Corriere della Sera. Basically, he asked the Christian Democrats, now called  the Popular Party and dominant in the upper house, to let him and his new  cabinet team get on with the job of governing Italy.
He said that in presenting the government's programme to the two chambers  of parliament, he would set out clearly the opposition's autonomy in forming  opinions and making decisions. But equally clear would be the call for a vote  of confidence as the expression of the need to run the country. Such support  ought not necessarily to be felt as opening a political line of credit for his  government, Berlusconi wrote.
In the same newspaper, the leader of the Popular Party senators Nicola  Mancino gave nothing away when he said they had not yet made up their minds  how to vote. The party's oft-stated formal position is one of clear-cut  opposition to the Berlusconi government, but some of its senators have opined  the premier should be left to get on with the job while they remain in  opposition.
One of the 11 life senators, former head of state Francesco Cossiga of the  old Christian Democrats has already said he would vote for Berlusconi if  necessary, and he urged colleagues of the political center to do likewise.
Berlusconi's coalition allies Bossi and Fini have simply warned the  senators that if they fail to deliver the confidence vote, fresh elections  would be staged next month.
Italy's new Foreign Minister Antonio Martino meanwhile arrived in Brussels  for his first ministerial council meeting of the European Union. He told  European Commission chief Jacques Delors, "l have come to offer reassurances"  about the Berlusconi government.
Martino said Italy was worried by the difficulties the EU was experiencing  in implementing foreign policy and joint security.
