Australia may contribute up to 300 army  signallers and engineers to a proposed UN force to protect refugees in Rwanda,  officials said here Sunday.
But a senior Australian Defence Force official (ADF) source said it could  take up to four weeks to prepare the contingent and would be a more difficult  operation than Cambodia or Somalia because of the logistics involved.
The ADF contributed a battalion of 1,100 infantry and supporting units to  the US-led mission in Somalia last year, and about 600 signallers and  helicopter crews joined the successful UN mission in Cambodia in 1992-93.
Resupply for both of those missions was relatively easy, with access for  heavy equipment by sea, but any UN mission in Rwanda would have to resupplied  by airlift or through long, potentially dangerous, road convoys.
Australia was asked late on Friday to contribute to the 5,500-strong UN  force, expected to involve contributions by up to 10 western countries and  based around infantry units from Tanzania, Nigeria, Ghana and Senegal.
Communications equipment and signallers, engineers, medical staff and  equipment, movement controllers, and transport units including helicopters  would likely be supplied by western nations.
Government sources today said the UN request would be "obviously viewed  sympathetically". Foreign Minister Gareth Evans has previously expressed  horror at the the scale of the tragedy in Rwanda.
However, Defence Minister Robert Ray said Australia would only contribute  to the UN force if a political settlement was in place between the two warring  Rwandan factions.
Aid groups estimate at least 200,000 people have died in the bloodbath  which followed the death of Rwanda's president in a suspicious plane crash  April 6.
Hundreds of thousands of refugees have also fled into neighbouring  Tanzania, Zaire, Burundi and Uganda, where they face hunger and disease.
The UN Security Council is expected to vote tomorrow to set up the  mission, although disagreements between the world body and the United States  on the size and duties of the force may delay a vote.
Australian Officials are expected to meet Monday to discuss the UN request,  with a formal recommendation made to the government by mid-week.
