Yemen faces a bleak future with the civil war  set to aggravate its already severe economic difficulties, diplomats said  Saturday.
The civil war broke out at a time when the country was already grappling  with large debt and persistent deficits in its budget and balance of payments,  one diplomat said.
"War in a country already suffering from severe economic problems is a  disaster. It will only sap its limited resources and this will make it unable  to stand again on its feet for a long time," a Gulf-based diplomat said.
Large-scale funds will be needed for post-war reconstruction and although  Yemen produces some oil, there is no sign that oil prices will improve in the  near future.
Yemen produces around 335,000 barrels per day (bpd), including nearly  195,000 bpd from Mareb in the north, but one third of output is consumed  locally.
So far neither side has published official figures for the number of  casualties or damage caused in fighting which broke out between rival north  and south troops on May 5.
But airports in Aden in the south and Saana in the north have been  targeted by air raids and long-range missiles, along with other civilian  buildings.
Diplomats said the war could inflict heavy losses if northern troops  advance on Aden, the economic capital of the unified state.
Since former North and South Yemen were merged in May 1990, Yemeni  authorities have reported a large increase in oil production and reserves due  to major discoveries in both areas.
They pledged to use the oil wealth to finance domestic development and  bring prosperity to one of the world's poorest nations.
But such dreams have not materialised and the economy took a downturn when  Gulf countries suspended their aid following Yemen's perceived backing of the  Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990.
Some 700,000 Yemenis, who had constituted a major source of hard currency  for their country, were also expelled from Saudia Arabia during the Gulf  crisis, pushing unemployment up to 36 percent.
There have also been allegations that not all the oil revenues were  finding their way into the state coffers.
A United Nations study has drawn a bleak picture of Yemen's economy saying  debt has reached serious levels, deficits persist, unemployment is rising and  the farming and industrial sector are running low.
The study by the Economic and Social Commission for West Asia (ESCWA)  estimated Yemen's debt at between seven to nine billion dollars and the budget  deficit at about 800 million dollars in 1993, nearly 83 percent of revenues.
"The Gulf war and its consequences dealt another blow to Yemen, inflicting  losses of more than two billion dollars and causing the return of over 700,000  Yemenis," said the study, published Saturday by the United Arab Emirates  semi-official newspaper al-Ittihad.
"This put another burden on the economy. Unemployment rose and remittances  from expatriates abroad sharply declined, depriving Yemen of one of its main  income sources which had helped it finance imports and development."
With the population projected to grow from 12 million to 16 million in  2000, Yemen needs to boost revenues by up to 16 percent annually to stop a  deterioration in living standards, the report said.
While to improve living standards, revenues needed to grow by between 21.8  and 26 percent annually, it added.
It said the budget deficit had persisted because Yemen had failed to  control spending while excessive banknotes issue sharply boosted prices and  depressed the purchasing power of the national currency, the rial.
Another study by the Arab League showed Yemen's debt servicing exceeded  100 million dollars in 1992 while its balance of payments suffered from a  deficit of 664 million dollars.
A decline in oil prices widened its trade balance gap to 1.59 billion  dollars in 1992 from 1.2 billion dollars in 1991.
