President Nelson Mandela defended  Saturday his party's 80 billion rand (21 billion dollar) plan to wipe out  apartheid's backlogs, and lashed out at whites who had complained that the  programme would cost too much.
Speaking at the funeral service here of longtime friend and fellow African  National Congress (ANC) activist Elias Motsoaledi, Mandela said the five-year  plan should not threaten the properties of whites or lead to a drop in living  standards.
Whites, Mandela said, were opposed to the plan because they were "products  of a wealthy background and used to comfort.
"They have no tradition of spending such huge resources in order to  address the problems of blacks in this country," Mandela said.
ANC leaders, on the other hand, were "products of squalor and misery" and  were committed to improving the living conditions of all South Africans.
The Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP), the conerstone of  Mandela's government of nationl unity, aims to create 2.5 million jobs, build  one million houses, provide electricity to another 2.5 million, provide 10  years of free education to all and redistribute 30 percent of all farmland to  blacks.
Economists believe the RDP is unattainable without significant economic  growth while the National Party of former president and now Deputy President  Frederik de Klerk believes the cost of the RDP to be in the region of 600  billion rands (164 billion dollars).
Mandela said Saturday the programme had become the primary task of the  ANC, which swept to power in the historic April 26-29 all-race election.
"Now is the time to begin to deliver with our promises," Mandela said.
"We want to ensure that the enormous advantages ... enjoyed by the white  community are now harnassed to develop the entire country," he said.
"Delivery on the RDP should not threaten the property of minorities and  their living standards, but we have to meet the expectation of people within a  reasonable space of time."
The best tribute the ANC could pay to party stalwarts like Motsoaledi, he  added, would be to improve the lives of ordinary South Africans.
Motsoaledi, 70, a former trade unionist who joined ANC's military wing in  the late 1950s, was arrested in 1963 and sentenced the following year, along  with Mandela and six other ANC leaders, to life in jail for plotting the  overthrow of the then white minority government.
He was freed after 26 years, in October, 1989, just four months ahead of  Mandela's own release.
Motsoaledi was elected in 1991 as a member of the ANC's decision-making  National Executive Committee and continued to play an active role in politics  until his death from throat cancer on May 10 -- the day Mandela was  inaugurated as South Africa's first democratically-elected president.
Paying tribute to Motsoaledi, Mandela described him as a "worthy freedom  fighter, second to none."
His death on inauguration day, like the deaths of other ANC activists who  did not survive to see the arrival of the democracy they had fought for their  entire lives, had been a "cruel blow," Mandela said.
Among the mourners at the funeral, held at Orlando Stadium in this  sprawling black township near Johnnesburg, were Deputy President Thabo Mbeki,  Defence Minister Joe Modise, Foreign Minister Alfred Nzo, who was also a  pallbearer, Sports Minister Steve Tshwete, Telecommunications and Broadcasting  Minister Pallo Jordan, South African Communist Party general-secretary Charles  Nqakula and human rights lawyer George Bizos, who defended Mandela, Motsoaledi  and the colleagues in the so-called Rivonia trial of 1964.
