The German parliament Friday adopted tougher laws   against rightwing extremists, neo-Nazis who deny the Holocaust ever happened,  and organised crime.
Deputies adopted a law prescribing up to three years' prison or a fine for  "those who approve, deny or minimise, in public or before a meeting, actions  perpetrated during the Nazi dictatorship."
Hitherto, so-called "Auschwitz lies" -- revisionist denials of the Nazi  extermination of Jews in concentration camps -- were not punishable save when  held a direct defamation of Jews or incitement to racial hatred.
The move repairs an inability of the courts to prosecute apologists of the  Nazi era whose utterances have caused outrage.
Members of the Bundestag, or lower house of parliament, also voted to  punish the wearing of insignia similar to those of the Nazis. Neo-Nazis had  been getting round the ban on wearing Nazi insignia with similar ones.
Malicious wounding and assaults -- a stock in trade of neo-Nazi skinheads  -- will meet with a maximum five years in prison, against three at present.
Arson, a favourite form of attack by German rightwing extremists against  the lodgings of foreigners, will be punishable by up to 10 years in jail.
The crackdown, voted by all parties including the opposition, was part of  a package of measures to toughen up the criminal law presented by the  government of Chancellor Helmut Kohl.
But the Social Democrats declined to accept other measures, notably those  intended to strengthen the fight against organised crime, which it considered  insufficient.
The package, described by the opposition as a "hotchpotch", has still to  be approved by the upper house of parliament, or Bundesrat, where the SPD has  the majority.
The centre-right Christian Democrat/Christian Social alliance and Free  Democrat party also adopted measures Friday to:
-- expel any foreigner guilty of dealing in drugs
-- reduce penalties for those who agree to testify against their  accomplices in organised crime
-- allow the foreign intelligence service to pass evidence on to the  prosecuting authorities, and
-- pass sentence of up to 10 years' prison for smuggling illegal imigrants.
Interior Minister Manfred Kanther said the measures were a political  signal of the state's readiness to fight crime, and marked a change of  emphasis.
"We want quite consciously to shift the viewpoint away from that of the  privileged perpetrator of crime and to the victim," he said.
The adoption of the crime-fighting package came amid continued rumblings  over a race-riot in the east German town of Magdeburg on May 12 when a mob of  50-60 extremist skinhead youths gave chase to a group of Africans.
The police are accused of failing to intervene and then of letting free  those they had arrested, and not to have been on the alert for extremist  violence despite standing orders.
The Saxony-Anhalt prosecutor said Friday the authorities were now  investigating 22 people in connection with the Ascension Day violence. Seven  others have been charged with serious public order offences.
