Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir  Bhutto and Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic were among more than two  million Moslems who Friday climbed Mount Arafat, the climax of the annual  pilgrimage to Mecca.
Saudi authorities said the hajj, or pilgrimage, had passed off without  incident despite threats from Iranian pilgrims to hold an anti-US  demonstration in defiance of a Saudi ban.
Some 62 million cold water capsules donated by Saudi King Fahd were  distributed to the crowd, as they climbed the mount in burning sun with  temperatures reaching 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit).
Security forces, ambulances and thousands of state employees were posted  along the pilgrims' route from Mina, 10 kilometres (six miles) north of Mecca,  to Mount Arafat.
"The pilgrims' climb of Mount Arafat went off in record time despite their  large numbers and there were no reported incidents," said Mecca governor  Prince Majed ben Abdel Aziz.
Saudi security chief General Ahmad Bilal said the "security plan had been  executed with great success" and there had been no signs of any public  disorder.
Izetbegovic arrived in Mecca with 360 Bosnian pilgrims some of whom were  wounded in the war in the former Yugoslav republic.
Out of the two million pilgrims, 995,116 were from abroad.
At sunset the pilgrims were due to descend to the Muzadalifa valley to  celebrate on Saturday the feast of Al-Adha, marking the end of the pilgrimage.
The pilgrimage was marked by a dispute between Saudi Arabia and Iran over  the planned rally and the numbers of Iranian pilgrims allowed.
Iran was only allowed to send 61,000 worshippers compared with 100,000 in  previous years.
Saudi authorities countered Iranian protests saying they were applying a  quota system agreed with other Islamic countries, allowing 1,000 pilgrims for  every million residents.
Riyadh also banned the Iranian pilgrims from holding a political rally  which has led to clashes with security forces in past years.
The Iranian camp was placed under surveillance, and Iranian President Ali  Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani on Friday denounced "the immaturity" of Saudi leaders.
