Bidding for the only major title he has never won, Edberg would be a  popular winner on his least-favourite surface. The Swede, who reigned for 72  weeks as world number-one from 1990, will be making his eleventh visit -- his  best previous showing coming in 1989 when he reached the final only to be  thwarted by Michael Chang. Last year he crashed badly in the quarter-finals to  emerging Andrei Medvedev of the Ukraine. It was part of a disastrous year in  which the London-based Swede had only one tournament win -- unexpectedly at  Madrid. Edberg, who became the father of Emily in July, perked up earlier this  season with victories at Doha and Stuttgart, but there has since been a  worrying slump in form. After losing to Bruguera in the semi-finals at the  Monte Carlo Open he has subsequently been beaten in the quarter-finals at  Madrid and failed to win a match at Hamburg.
Strengths: Probably best backhand in the game.
Weaknesses: Highly-tuned style leaves no room for error. Often let down by  a wayward forehand and regularly called for foot-faults while serving.
ANDREI MEDVEDEV (Ukraine x4)
Twelve months ago the 19-year-old Ukranian was beaten in the semi-finals  by eventual champion Bruguera. But he avenged that defeat at this year's Monte  Carlo Open -- part of a remarkable comeback after a three-month lay off  because of a knee injury. Medvedev, tipped by most top players as a potential  world number-one, played his first tournament of 1994 at Estoril -- and  promptly reached the final. After triumphing at Monte Carlo he went on to  defeat his close friend and up-and-coming Russian giant-killer Yevgeny  Kafelnikov.
Strengths: Able to rethink and adapt tactics during a match. Willing to go  for outright winners.
Weaknesses: Lack of stamina
JIM COURIER (USA x7)
Invincible on the Roland Garros clay courts throughout 1991 and 1992 until  the classic five-set defeat inflicted by Bruguera in last year's final,  Courier has been showing increasing loss in confidence. He has won no titles  so far in 1994, and lost his only final (at Nice) to Spain's Alberto  Berasategui.
Strengths: Powerful groundstrokes and forehand
Weaknesses: Predictability. His game has become too well known by top  rivals.
