President Suharto told visiting New Zealand Prime  Minister Jim Bolger on Monday that recent criticism in his country over human  rights in East Timor was based on inaccurate information, an official said.
State Secretary Murdiono said that the two leaders agreed on the need for  an exchange of visits between legislators from both countries to clear up any  misunderstanding.
"The exchange of visits may be useful," Murdiono said, proposing trips by  "New Zealand parliamentarians to Indonesia, and especially to East Timor, to  see the developments there."
Bolgers's two-day official visit, which began Monday, comes amid rising  criticism in New Zealand over the human-rights situation in East Timor, which  Jakarta unilaterally declared its 27th province in 1976.
Fifty-one of New Zealand's 99 members of parliament signed a petition  earlier this month, expressing concern about the situation in East Timor after  seeing a film by British journalist John Pilger depicting alleged human-rights  abuses in the territory.
Bolger told a press conference later Monday that he was surprised to hear  that his country's parliamentarians "fully understood the details (of events  in East Timor) in the degree or to the extent that Foreign Minister Ali Alatas  does."
Meanwhile in a joint press statement, Bolger said he was encouraged by  steps Indonesia has taken in the implementation of agreed confidence building  measures during the talks with Lisbon on East Timor earlier this month in  Geneva.
Bolger expressed the hope that the Jakarta-Lisbon dialogue would lead to  "a just, comprehensive and internationally acceptable settlement to the  question of East Timor."
Indonesian troops invaded the former-Portuguese colony of East Timor in  1975, but the United Nations refuses to acknowledge Jakarta as the  administrator of the area.
Murdiono said that during the talks Suharto also said that the  "integration" of East Timor into Indonesia was done with the approval of the  people living there.
Suharto and Bolger also discussed the importance of the Asia Pacific  Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit to be held in Jakarta in November.
Both Indonesia and New Zealand are members of APEC which also includes  Australia, Canada, the United States, Mexico, Japan, South Korea, Japan,  China, Hongkong, Papua New Guinea and Taiwan.
It also includes members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations --   Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand.
Bolger will leave Indonesia Tuesday to visit other ASEAN members.
