The graffiti on a school wall in Khagrachari said it  all: "Just like a black cannot become a white, a pahari (hill people) cannot  be a Bengali."
Twenty years since the fighting began here, peace in Bangladesh's  southeastern hill tracts region still seems an elusive proposition, regardless  of whether tribal Shanti Bahini rebels in India can agree with the government  on returning home.
Some 56,000 tribesmen languish in camps over the border in India's Tripura  state, their leaders sticking to demands for "autonomy and a separate entity"  for the 600,000 Chakma tribespeople living in the region, which has been  settled by Bengali-speakers from the densely-populated flatlands below.
For now, they have dropped the idea of an armed struggle, but warn that  they could re-adopt it if the current series of peace talks, initiated in  1991, were to fail.
Successive Bangladeshi governments have rejected the question of autonomy,  which for some tribals does not amount to demanding complete independence.
In the mid-1980s the government set up tribal-managed Hill District  Councils which work mainly to develop the region.
The three-district region of Bangladesh bordering India and Burma that is  the focus of the conflict has been the scene of intermittent bloody clashes  between government troops and rebels for the past 20 years.
Shantu Larma, the head of one rebel group, said the tribals were "not  fighting whimsically, but for the cause of our historically recognised rights  to our homeland."
Khisha, a tribal spokesman, warned that "the current policy of the  government can keep the situation calm temporarily, but (it) will burst again  in the future.
"The younger generation will burst in anger when they learn their father  is in jail, their brothers maimed or killed to protect their rights," he said.
The tribespeople fled their homes in 1986, alleging military persecution  in clashes which officialy left more than 2,500 people dead, but the toll is  widely believed to be much higher.
A military officer in Khagrachari hill district said the current process  for peace "has reached a point of no return" and that the ball was basically  in the court of the tribal leadership.
The two sides also accuse each other of violating the current ceasefire.
Upendra Lal Chakma, chairman of the Chakma Refugee Welfare Association,  recently said after visiting his home that his people still felt insecure and  some "major problems" would have to be solved.
The army officer accused some of the groups of wanting "to keep the  insurgency alive for their own interest," claiming the tribals were getting  "more than they deserve" in terms of education and other facilities.
Official sources said because of the insurgency the area was one of the  most developed in terms of roads, telecommunications and power compared to  other such towns in Bangladesh.
Tribal leader Khisha disagreed: "This development is not bringing good for  our people, but it is counter-insurgency under the cover of development," he  said.
