President Nelson Mandela, in a wideranging and  at times emotional speech, Tuesday called on the nation to get down to work  and help build a free and prosperous South Africa.
"My government's commitment to create a people-centered society of liberty  binds us to the purpose of the goals of freedom from want, freedom from  hunger, freedom from deprivation, freedom from ignorance, freedom from  suppression and freedom from fear," he said.
Opening the first working session of the all-race parliament that emerged  from last month's historic democratic election, Mandela concentrated more on  economic and social issues, stressing the importance of his Reconstruction and  Development Program.
The ambitious plan, the backbone of the African National Congress'  socio-economic bluperint for South Africa, has generally been met with  "consensus" by his government of national unity, Mandela said.
Mandela set himself a target of 100 days to address "major areas of  desperate need" with projects "under the direct supervision of the President."
He listed these as free medical care in state hospitals for pregnant  mothers and children under six; a feeding scheme in primary schools; the  electrification of 350,000 homes during the current fiscal year; a campaign to  rebuild townships, and efforts at job creation and training.
"Savings and redirection of spending" of government funds would help  finance the program, he said, as well as contributions from business and  overseas.
He thanked "many of our friends abroad" for commitments to assist the  country, "not from objectives of charity but from the desire to express  solidarity with the new society we seek to build."
Fiscal discipline and frugality by the central and provincial governments  would be a key element in ensuring the success of the program and avoiding "a  permanenetly higher general level of taxation," he said, promising to pursue  "the battle to reduce the rate of inflation."
"We are blessed with a heritage of a sophisticated financial sector,"  Mandela said, promising greater attention to "black economic empowerment and  support for the development of small and medium business ... (important) in  deracialising and democratising the economy and creating ... jobs."
He hinted at a future abolition of the dual currency system -- a  commercial rand and a financial rand for foreign investors -- and foreign  exchange and promised "an attractive investment climate."
"We must combat such social pathologies as widespread poverty, the  breakdown of family life, crime, alcohol and drug abuse, the abuse of  children, women and the elderly and the painful reality of street children,"  he said.
Mandela pledged to "empty our prisons of children," and to speedily  "(attend) to the vexed and unresolved issue of an amnesty for criminal  activities carried out in furtherance of political objectives."
"The nation must come to terms with its past in a spirit of openess and  forgiveness and proceed to build a future on the basis of repairing and  healing," he said.
"We will prepare the legislation which will seek to free the wrongdoers  from fear of retribution and blackmail," he said, "while acknowledging the  injuries of those who have been harmed."
But he promised "the full authority of the position we represent" to deal  with "the problem of politically-motivated violence (which) is still with us."
On foreign policy, he said his government was involved in talks to see  what it could contribute "to determine what could be the search for the peace  in Angola and Rwanda (and) to the reinforcement of the peace process in  Mozambique."
"We have learnt the lesson that our blemishes speak of what all humanity  should not do," Mandela said. "We understand this fully that our glories point  to the heights of what human genius can achieve."
"Let us all get down to work," he concluded.
