Mexico, World Cup hosts in 1986 but banned in 1990,  return to the finals with a new, swashbuckling style enlivened by unorthodox  goalkeeper Jorge Campos.
The mastermind of the new approach is Miguel Mejia Baron, who took over  from former Argentine manager Cesar Luis Menotti in 1993.
They turned the CONCACAF tournament into a scoring festival, coming  through 12 matches in two rounds with a total of 39 goals to become the first  nation to qualify for the 1994 finals.
The reputation of the Mexican attack grew with the addition of Luis  Alberto Alves, or Zaguinho. He scored 15 goals in 22 matches when Mexico were  invited to play in the 1993 Copa America. Incredibly Mexico almost won the  championship, losing 2-1 to Argentina in the final.
Zaguinho, who turned down the chance to play for Brazil where he grew up,  also found the back of the net in every 1993 Gold Cup game.
All indications are that Zaguinho is a worthy heir to 35-year-old Hugo  Sanchez, who is expected to join him in Mexico's squad.
Sanchez, whose tenure in the Spanish League has included stints with both  Real and Atletico in Madrid, struggled with modest Rayo Vallecano this season.
But his 16 goals surpassed the legendary Alfredo de Stefano's Spanish  league record total of 227, and he scored one of the goals in the 2-1 victory  over Canada with which Mexico closed out their qualifying campaign.
With millions of Mexicans and Mexican-Americans living in the United  States, Mexico can count on thousands of vocal supporters at their matches.
The man guaranteed to exhilarate and exasperate them is Campos, who has  top-level experience as a forward and who has no inhibitions about leaving his  penalty area or even his half when the Mexicans are on the attack.
Though his forays, reminiscent of the antics of Colombian keeper Rene  Higuita, can lead to disasters, Menotti says the risks are worth it.
"By playing so far up he prevents counter-attacks," the former manager  said. "His presence sometimes inhibits forwards. And he's incredibly quick at  getting back."
Knee injuries have bothered Campos this spring, but a visit to a Colorado  clinic provided reassurance for Baron.
