Two British carriers on Sunday cancelled flights to  Paris' Orly airport, averting a showdown over landing rights after France and  Britain agreed to open the airport to services out of London by the end of  June.
In a joint statement, French Transport Minister Bernard Bosson and his  British counterpart John MacGregor said they were committed to opening the  Orly-London link to air traffic "as soon as possible and at the latest by the  end of June."
Meanwhile spokesmen for British Airways (BA) and Air UK told AFP their  companies had decided to cancel inaugural London-Orly services that had been  planned for Monday.
The scheduled flights, out of London's Heathrow and Stansted airports,  would still go ahead but would be rerouted to Paris's northern Charles de  Gaulle airport, the spokesmen said.
Until now all London-Paris flights have used the Charles de Gaulle airport.
BA chairman Colin Marshall said in a statement he was delighted that the  French government had agreed to open the link, adding that the company had now  secured its objective of running a service into Orly.
He said he was certain that outstanding problems could be resolved before  the end of June.
A spokesman for the Paris ministry said that, under the accord, London had  agreed to ensure that BA, its TAT subsidiary, and Air UK cancelled their plans  to start flights into Orly, south of Paris, Monday in defiance of a landing  ban by French authorities.
The ministries' statement said that on the French side, outstanding  "safety, environmental and congestion problems" would be resolved openly and  in line with existing European (Union) regulations.
And in Britain problems faced by French carriers to gain landing slots at  British airports, particularly Heathrow, would be examined with the same  openness and in the context of EU rules on slot allocations, the statement  added.
Up to 10 British airliners from the three carriers had planned to use Orly  Monday in breach of the French ban.
They earlier insisted with British government backing that they were  entitled to start flights to Orly Monday in line with a European Commission  ruling last month.
But French authorities continued to bar British flights to the airport in  defiance of the decision, which ordered France to open three domestic routes  -- Orly-London, Orly-Toulouse and Orly-Marseilles -- to competition.
BA had threatened Friday to sue the French government if it stopped the  company's flights, while French aviation authorities were reported ready to  reject the British carriers' flight plans, which under aviation rules would  make it illegal for them to take off from London.
Bosson, who has been in constant contact with MacGregor since Friday,  earlier described the affair as a "storm in a teacup" and predicted that  "everything will be back in order" by Monday.
He had cited congestion at Orly, environmental considerations and  increased access to London's Heathrow airport for French carriers as issues  which needed to be resolved before the route is opened.
A fourth UK airline -- British Midland -- had earlier delayed the start of  its four-flights-a-day Heathrow-Orly service until the row is resolved.
