Expectations ran high Tuesday that a British  minister might cool Malaysian anger over corruption allegations enough to  secure the lifting of a three-month boycott of British firms.
Trade Minister Richard Needham met Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad early  Tuesday to deliver a confidential message from British Prime Minister John  Major.
Details of the talks were not immediately available, but Needham had said  on arrival late Monday he was carrying the "original" of a letter to Mahathir,  who had already received a copy of it.
"I want to talk to him about the ideas that I bring with me for the future  of Malaysian-British relationship," Needham said. He expressed hope that the  boycott would be lifted quickly because "we've have so many things we want to  do in common."
Needham is to meet Malaysia's International Trade Minister Rafidah Aziz  later Tuesday.
Malaysia barred British firms from bidding for government contracts on  February 25, following reports in the British media of corruption in  Anglo-Malaysian trade and in Mahathir's administration.
London's Sunday Times was singled out for its February 20 article alleging  links between Mahathir and British construction firm Wimpey International.
The allegations were made amidst British media charges that Britain made a  234 million pound (350 million US dollar) grant for Malaysia's Pergau dam  project contingent on Malaysia's purchase of a billion pounds (1.5 billion US  dollar) of British goods.
Mahathir had said that the boycott, said to have cost British firms  millions of dollars in lost contracts, would be lifted only if the British  media "stopped reporting lies on Malaysia."
A Malaysian official noted that a call late Monday by the powerful youth  wing of Mahathir's United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) for the  government to relax the ban was a clear sign "ties could be normalised very  soon."
Mahathir acknowledged a British media "ceasefire" on Sunday. He said  "there is an improvement in the British media reports on Malaysia particularly  after the person (Andrew Neil, editor of the Sunday Times) who started such  reports was transferred."
Neil, 44, is to be seconded next month to work in New York for seven  months on a current affairs programme for the Fox Television network.
The network and the Sunday Times are both controlled by media baron Rupert  Murdoch.
"The ban should be eased if the British press has changed its attitude and  make no adverse reports on Malaysia," said UMNO youth chief Rahim Tamby Chik.
British Education SEcretary Minister John Patten had made a pitch last  month to mend the rift.
Mahathir first took on London with his "buy British last" policy in  retaliation for hiking fees for overseas students in Britain after he assumed  office in 1981.
