Japanese socialist leaders on Saturday emphasised  their desire for a key role in creating a new coalition to replace Prime  Minister Tsutomu Hata's minority government.
Tomiichi Murayama, chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), said at  the party's central committee the SDP "must return to power and actively  participate in moves to establish a new coalition framework."
The SDP, the second largest opposition party, walked out on the government  last month following infighting, forcing Hata to head Japan's first minority  administration in 39 years.
Murayama said his party would never return to the coalition in its current  form. "We should not mix up our positive attitude toward a coalition and our  reversion to the current cabinet."
Murayama warned that if Hata failed to step down to form a new coalition  with the SDP, he would be forced to call general elections by the end of the  current parliament session which ends June 29.
"The Hata cabinet is reactionary with continually negative attitudes,"  Murayama said. "There is no other way than his voluntary resignation or  elections."
Murayama and SDP secretary-general Wataru Kubo earlier indicated that the  party may be willing to return to the ruling camp if Hata resigned  voluntariliy.
Hata has said he will not step down because of the pressing need to  concentrate on issues such as a budget bill and solving trade disputes with  the United States.
Murayama hinted he would be willing to join with elements of the largest  opposition Liberal Democartic Party (LDP), saying, "We also need to look for  cooperation with some LDP members who havs ideas of protection of the  constitution."
He added: "We need to take the political leadership, getting along with  liberals and social democrats, aiming at a moderate muti-party system."
Kubo also said at the committee, "I'm determined to establish a new  coalition goverment, cooperating with part of the current coalition and some  of the liberals in the LDP."
The SDP and the LDP, who have 280 seats in the 511-seat lower house, have  threatened to submit a motion of no-confidence against Hata, saying the  minority government is unqualifed to lead the nation.
The two parties, who have expressed concern about the prolonged recession,  have agreed in principle to pass a budget by the end of June. But they have  signalled they will not support Hata on controversial issues.
SDP leaders are to continue exchanging views on major policies during the  weekend, party officials said.
