US Secretary of State Warren  Christopher met Palestinian leaders in a highly symbolic visit to the  autonomous Jericho enclave on Tuesday as Arab gunmen shot dead two Israeli  settlers.
The secretary became the first foreign dignitary to tour the West Bank  oasis since Israeli forces pulled out on Friday, but 60 kilometres (35 miles)  to the south, Moslem fundamentalists riddled a settlers' car with bullets.
An anonymous telephone caller to Israel military radio claimed  responsibility for the killing of a man and a woman in the name of Ezzedin al  Kassam, the armed wing of the Islamic Resistance Movement HAMAS.
Automatic weapons fire raked three Jews close to the settlement of Haggai,  south of Hebron, in the first killing of Israelis since the May 4 accord to  implement self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho.
The injured settler, who had a bullet in the head, was the daughter of the  dead woman, the officials said.
The army closed off the area and launched a manhunt for the gunmen.
Israel's Deputy Defence Minister Motta Gur said "terrorists" wanted "to  sabotage the peace process ... but in the end they will have no choice but to  negotiate with us."
Meanwhile Christopher was all smiles as pointed to the fruits of the  process on a three-hour tour of the first self-rule enclave, under the  protection of Palestinian police.
He met a delegation led by the PLO's Faisal Husseini, who will sit on the  self-governing authority for the Gaza Strip and Jericho, at the new police  headquarters.
"It's a tremendous opportunity to come here where a declaration of  principles has been translated into practice," he said as a boy scout band  struck up.
"I want to tell our Palestinian friends that they are not alone in this  new endeavour.
"The United States and the international community will stand with them as  they make this historic transition," Christopher said.
He recalled that Washington had pledged 500 million dollars for the  five-year interim period of autonomy.
A US official pointed out the Jericho interlude did not mean the United  States supported the creation of a Palesitnian state.
The secretary toured the ruins of the eighth century Hisham's Palace, on  the edge of the town, the lowest in the world at 250 metres below sea level  (840 feet) and also reputed to be the oldest.
The trip was sandwiched between the secretary's shuttle mission from Syria  to Israel, and possibly back again.
He met Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in Jerusalem on Monday night after  arriving from Syria with reactions to Israel's latest peace package.
The two men were scheduled to have further talks on Tuesday evening, after  Christopher saw Foreign Minister Shimon Peres.
The secretary met President Hafez al-Assad and Foreign Minister Faruq  al-Shara in Damascus on Sunday and Monday.
The visit to Syria came just two weeks after Christoper took Israel's  peace package to Assad -- a phased withdrawal linked to security arrangements  on the strategic plateau captured in the 1967 Middle East war in return for  total peace.
"We are at the beginning of a very serious process," said a US official  who refused to be named. They are clearly seriously engaged in this process."
The official said Assad still insisted on total Israeli withdrawal from  the Golan, but noted that the Syrian press had been "more positive" over the  weekend.
The official Syrian press called for a rapid Israeli withdrawal from the  Golan Heights, urging an "acceptable and reasonable" pullout timetable.
