An angry co-premier Prince Norodom Ranariddh  arrived here Tuesday from peace talks with the Khmer Rouge in North Korea, and  blasted the rebel faction for sinking the Cambodian peace process.
"In Pyongyang the Khmer Rouge has clearly shown that they want ... to  resolve the remaining problems through war," Prince Ranariddh told reporters  at Phnom Penh airport after his arrival from Pyongyang.
He said Khmer Rouge nominal leader Khieu Samphan had refused proposals by  King Norodom Sihanouk for a nationwide ceasefire beginning June 15 that has  already been agreed upon by the government.
The prince said King Sihanouk had pleaded with the rebel leader to agree  to the ceasefire, but Khieu Samphan had kept up a "very tough and unreasonable  stance."
He added that the government and the National Assembly had reiterated  their support for the king's plan without conditions in the aim of bringing an  end to the fighting in Cambodia.
The prince also said that he was carrying a message from the king that  "clearly states who is responsible for the failure of the talks."
Prince Ranariddh said the failure of the talks to agree on a ceasefire  meant Cambodia had "lost the opportunity of resolving the problem through  peaceful means."
"I have no hope because the Khmer Rouge don't want to do anything but  continue the war and destroy our national institutions," he said.
"The royal government does not have any choice but to fight the Khmer  Rouge and to ask for assistance from friendly countries."
The Cambodian government has made repeated appeals for foreign military  aid and training after its forces suffered a series of embarrassing defeats in  northwest Cambodia.
The peace talks, which ended on Saturday, two days earlier than scheduled,  were based on a plan by the king which would have given the rebels government  posts in return for opening up their zones and merging their fighters into the  Royal Cambodian Army.
The two sides released a joint declaration Saturday, in which they agreed  to establish a joint standing committee, to begin meeting here June 15, to  deal with problems dividing the government and the rebels.
They also pledged to work for national reconciliation and a ceasefire, and  to keep Cambodia's territory intact, without secession or partition.
But western diplomats here were skeptical that the two sides would ever  sit down and iron out their differences at the negotiating table.
"Neither side is prepared to make the kind of concessions required to  bring the other side along," said one diplomat.
He added that the government had quickly taken the high ground by pushing  the ceasefire, a concession to which they knew the Khmer Rouge would never  agree.
But, he added: "While the talks did not succeed, at least there was a  commitment to continue contacts. I think that talks taking place in Phnom Penh  will be a good thing."
The peace talks were hosted by King Sihanouk at his residence in Pyongyang  and brought together co-premiers Prince Ranariddh and Hun Sen, parliament  leader Chea Sim and Khieu Samphan.
Prince Ranariddh also said the government had discovered about 250 corpses  between Treng and the rebel capital of Pailin in northwest Cambodia, adding  that the dead were rebels who had been killed by their leaders.
There has been no independent confirmation of the report.
