Enoch Dumbutshena, the founder leader of Zimbabwe's  main opposition, the Forum Party of Zimbabwe (FPZ), on Monday denied that he  had been dismissed from the one year-old party.
A weekend meeting of some 300 FPZ delegates from the country's five  provincial offices passed a vote of no confidence in former chief justice  Dumbutshena and his deputy and lawyer, Washington Sansole.
But Dumbutshena has refused to step down, saying the dismissal was  unconstitutional.
"They cannot, absolutely cannot expel me," Enoch Dumbutshena told the  independent Daily Gazette in an interview published Monday, saying he can only  be dismissed by the party's national executive or the congress.
He was replaced by the party's secretary general, Themba Dlodlo, as  interim president.
The members accused Dumbutshena of, among other things, dictatorial  tendencies, incompetence, selfishness and lack of communication with and  respect for other senior party leaders.
The party's national chairman, Aggripa Madlela, Monday said the  75-year-old leader has not been effective in leading the party, which was seen  by many at its inception as the only viable challenger to the government of  President Robert Mugabe.
"He is too old. We need a dynamic leader and Dumbutshena is clearly too  inactive for that because of his age," Madlela said.
The leadership crisis has hit the party just months ahead of the country's  third general elections since attaining independence from Britain in 1980, but  Madlela says this will not disturb the preparations for the polls.
Dumbutshena said it was surprising that some people wanted to remove him  when the party was getting "so effective", adding that a "bunch of  malcontents" want to sow confusion in his successful party.
He said those who wanted to remove him were free to form their own party  and warned that more expulsions should be expected following the weekend  meeting.
"By their very act, they have expelled themselves," Dumbutshena said.
On charges that he is being used by a few whites, Dumbutshena said he did  not believe that white Zimbabweans should be excluded from political  developments in the country.
"I believe every citizen of Zimbabwe, no matter his colour, should take  part in the politics of the country," he said.
On Mugabe's statements last week that whites funded opposition parties,  Dumbutshena said: "It's a pity that the head of state stoops to talking about  discrimination, instead of bringing the racial groups together".
