Early results in Malawi's first multi-party  elections put businessman Bakili Muluzi's United Democratic Front (UDF) ahead  in the presidential race Wednesday, but showed all main candidates leading in  their regional power bases.
Ageing President Hastings Kamuzu Banda, who has ruled Malawi with an iron  fist since independence in 1964, was leading in the central region, the base  of his Malawi Congress Party, where some 1.45 million people voted.
Pioneering reformer Chakufwa Chihana, heading the Alliance for Democracy,  was leading in the sparsely populated north, where about 542,000 people voted  Tuesday.
Muluzi was reported to have swept the the populous south, where 1.76  million people voted.
The fourth presidential contender, Kamlepo Kalua of the Malawi Democratic  Party, was reported to be performing poorly throughout the country, and  candidates from minor parties were all faring badly.
Counting of votes was continuing Wednesday after delays caused by  transport problems.
Final results will be announced Thursday, electoral commission chairwoman  Anastazia Msosa told state radio.
Banda has not allowed television into the country, but results were  broadcast on national radio throughout the night.
Commonwealth observers in the capital Lilongwe told a news conference that  Malawians had been able to vote "freely for the candidate of their choice."
If Muluzi confirms his winning trend he will bring a complete change of  style to the presidency.
Banda, officially 88 but rumoured to be at least 93, has surrounded  himself with a sycophantic court and rituals worthy of an absolute monarch,  and has kept himself aloof from a people whose language he does not speak.
He always wears a three-piece suit finished off with a top hat or a  bowler, relics of his 40 years abroad, mainly in Britain, where he was a  doctor.
President since Malawi became a republic on July 6, 1966, Banda proclaimed  himself President-for-Life five years later, and has left a stamp of fear on a   repressed nation where women are not allowed to wear trousers and men are  forbidden to grow their hair long.
Muluzi is the antithesis, even in his failings. Jovial and chubby, Muluzi  is an unashamed populist who would never shy from a walkabout among his people  or from making extravagant election promises.
His detractors have dubbed him Muluzi Six Pounds and His Excellency the  Thief, alluding to the six-month jail sentence he served 25 years ago for  stealing six pounds sterling.
But it is water off a duck's back to Muluzi, who has all but erased the  memory of the six years he served in the Banda administration as one of the  president's aides.
He was briefly education minister, in 1976, and rose to the rank of  secretary general of Banda's MCP in 1983, before serving as vice president of  Malawi's chamber of commerce.
He owns a road freight company and is president of the Malawi hauliers'  association.
Born 51 years ago in a small village near Machinga in the south of the  country, Muluzi has diplomas from English and Danish universities.
A Moslem, he is listed in his official biography as a politician, farmer,  businessman and educationist. He is married with two children.
He concentrated his campaign efforts on the densely populated and more  affluent south of the country.
His policies are vague, based on a catch-all fight against poverty, but he  uses top quality advisors, including party vice president Aleke Banda, another  MCP defector.
