Ukraine said Friday it would keep the controversial  Chernobyl nuclear power station open, and costed its closure and replacement  at 14 billion dollars, double an estimate of just a fortnight ago, Russian  news agencies reported.
Deputy Prime Minister Valery Shmarov said May 16 that decommissioning  Chernobyl would cost between six and eight billion dollars, a figure twice the  previous three billion dollar estimate quoted by the authorities in Kiev.
But in an address to plant workers Friday President Leonid Kravchuk said  closing Chernobyl and building a new power station "producing equivalent  electric power" would cost 14 billion dollars, "money which we do not have.
"The power station works and will continue working," he added, in defiance  of western pressure to shut down Chernobyl.
An explosion and fire in reactor number four in April 1986 released a huge  radioactive cloud across Europe in the world's worst civilian nuclear accident.
The European Commission wants Kiev to shut down the plant's two remaining  reactors, which produce seven percent of Ukraine's electricity needs, and a  promise to keep a third reactor shut.
Last month the European Union said it was considering contributing to the  construction of two new nuclear reactors in Ukraine if the authorities agreed  to close the entire plant.
The commission has costed Chernobyl's closure at 1.5 billion dollars, just  a fraction of the latest estimate by Ukraine.
Originally, Kiev had said that decommissioning Chernobyl would cost a  little more than three billion dollars -- one billion to build a new concrete  shell for the smashed number four reactor, 1.2 billion to complete the  construction of other reactors and about a billion to train staff.
Neither Shmarov nor Kravchuk have explained the rise in Ukraine's  estimates for ending power generation at Chernobyl.
The issue is to be discussed by the Group of Seven leading industrial  nations during their July summit meeting in Naples.
Separately, the Commission said Friday it would grant 410,000 dollars to  care for children who contracted cancer and lukaemia in the wake of the  Chernobyl disaster. The Vinitza hospital where most of the victims are  treated, sufferers from a chronic lack of equipment.
Since the end of 1994 the Commission's humanitarian affairs department had  granted some 2.66 million dollars in aid to Chernobyl victims.
