President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro denounced  fascism at a ceremony Saturday in honor of victims of a presumed far-right  bombing here 20 years ago, but was booed by extreme-leftists who later  scuffled with police.
The incident came as right-wing Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi dismissed  concerns in neighboring European states about the presence of neo-fascist  ministers in his cabinet, in an interview Saturday in the Washington Post that  was widely cited by the Italian press.
In the interview, Berlusconi said the five ministers from the neo-fascist  National Alliance had nothing in common with extreme-right forces elsewhere in  Europe.
Scalfaro meanwhile slammed fascism as "the negation of freedom and truth,"  warning there "there are still those who follow that path."
The president spoke at a ceremony to mark a bomb attack on a union  demonstration in Brescia 20 years ago that left eight dead and 100 injured.  The attackers were never found but presumed to be from the far-right.
About 150 extreme-left demonstrators Satuday hissed at the president, and  scuffled with police after he left.
Berlusconi, in the Post interview, said he had "obtained a solemn  declaration from the National Alliance saying they are against fascism and any  form of despotism," he said.
"Fascists do not exist in my government. They do not exist. There is  nobody in my government who is against liberty and democracy."
French President Francois Mitterrand was among European leaders expressing  concern about the neo-fascists in the coalition government that swept to power  after watershed elections in March, saying that Italian democracy risked major  changes as a result.
Asked about National Alliance leader Gianfranco Fini's controversial  remark that wartime fascist leader Benito Mussolini was "the greatest  statesman of the century," Berlusconi insisted that the comment had been  reported out of context.
Mussolini "did some good things for a while" and "history confirms this,"  Berlusconi said.
He also said that he had "no intention of reopening the question of  borders, and would respect treaties signed by previous Italian governments.
He was commenting on a statement by Mirko Tremaglia, a neo-fascist elected  chairman of the parliament's foreign affairs committee, who had evoked a  possible redrawing of the Italian border with Croatia's Adriatic regions of  Istra, Dalmatia and Rijeka.
Croatian President Franjo Tudjman on Friday denounced "Italian  imperialism" following Tremaglia's comments.
"The problem of Croatian stability is posed today in a particular light,  given the results of the Italian elections," Tudjman told Croatian newspaper  editors.
