The new South African government met here for  seven hours Monday and set up a ministerial panel to defuse tensions over a  deal that saw the former administration sign over vast tracts of land to Zulu  King Goodwill Zwelithini.
A statement said the cabinet discussed the issue, which created a furore  between its African National Congress (ANC), National Party (NP) and Inkatha  Freedom Party (IFP) components, "with a view to reaching a consensus that will  contribute to ... reconciliation."
The document released by deputy presidents Thabo Mbeki and Frederik de  Klerk said the committee would report to the government "as soon as possible"  on the implications of the deal.
The controversial arrangement under which 1.2 million hectares (2.96  million acres) of land was transferred to the KwaZulu Ingonyama Trust held by  King Goodwill was signed by then-president De Klerk on April 25, the day  before the start of South Africa's historic first democratic poll.
The territory comprises about one-fifth of the former KwaZulu homeland,  which was dismantled when South Africa's new interim constitution came into  effect on April 27.
Senior ANC officials said they and Mandela were unaware of the deal, which  they claim violates a moratorium on the disposal of state land and could  jeopardise future land reform programs.
The Cabinet Committee will comprise the ANC's Land Affairs Minister Derek  Hanekom and Water Affairs and Forestry Minister Kader Asmal, the NP's Minister  of Constitutional Development Roelf Meyer and Arts, Culture, Science and  Technology Minister Ben Ngubane of the IFP, the statement said.
It said the panel would look into the "security and tenure of the  residents in the prescribed area ... its possible impact on a future land  reform programe" and in making its recommendations give top priority to "the  interests of dispossessed African people."
IFP leader and Home Affairs Minister Mangosuthu Buthelezi on Monday  dismissed as "rubbish" reports that the deal was offered as a carrot to draw  his party at the last minute into the April 26-29 all-race election.
A visibly furious Buthelezi lashed out at reporters for suggesting there  was a dispute over the deal and said the entire affair had been blown up by  the media "because you do not want peace."
"There is no row as far as I am concerned," said Buthelezi, who was  cornered by reporters after his staff brought him to the wrong gate of the  parliamentary complex here to attend his first government meeting.
He arrived at the parliament buildings after talks on the issue with  Mandela, originally scheduled for Sunday night, and which the new president  had described as being part of "very sensitive matters."
"The land deal has created a great deal of concern," Mandela said after a  meeting of the ANC caucus Sunday, adding that he would do "everything  necessary to remove the tension."
Mandela had said the issue was likely to be the top item at his cabinet's  first meeting, but Buthelezi on Monday morning said this was wrong, because it  was not on the agenda he had been given.
Mandela told reporters Monday before the cabinet meeting that he was  confident "the good relationship between the chief (Buthelezi) and myself is  such that we can handle this to the satisfaction of everyone."
Hanekom said Sunday night that he had ordered a 24-hour guard on his  Pretoria office to prevent the disappearance of any documents connected with  the deal; a press conference he was to have held Monday morning -- although  aides said was unrelated to the KwaZulu deal -- was cancelled.
