Former communists in Hungary's Socialist Party  are expected to form a coalition government despite being projected to win an  absolute majority in parliament after Sunday's general election run-off vote.
The pro-reform Socialist Party (MSZP) of former foreign minister Gyula  Horn should seek to govern with the liberals in the Alliance of Free Democrats  (SZDSZ), the main opposition in the outgoing parliament.
The coalition would be an alliance of former persecutors with their former  victims, as the SZDSZ was formed by dissidents who in the 1980s had been  opposed to the communist regime.
According to the polling institute Szonda, the socialists of the MSZP are  set to win between 175 and 208 seats, and the SZDSZ between 67 and 86. The  absolute majority is of 194.
Even if the Socialist Party obtains more than 50 percent of the 386 seats  -- a remaining 259 are to be distributed in Sunday's vote -- Hungary's laws  must be adopted by a two-thirds majority, which the socialists alone cannot  hope to achieve.
In the first round on May 8, the second free elections since the fall of  communism, the MSZP garnered 33 percent of the vote, three times higher than  in 1990.
The MSZP was the only party to win seats outright in the first round out  of the 176 majority-system constituencies, placing two deputies.
Counting the results of regional lists in a proportional vote, the  socialists have a total 55 in parliament, compared to 28 to the liberal SZDSZ  and 18 for the Democratic Forum, the main component of the outgoing  conservative government.
Only three other parties managed to pass the threshold of five percent to  hold seats so far in the new parliament.
The Independent Smallholders Party (FKGP) won 14 seats in the first round,  the Federation of Young Democrats (FIDESZ) won seven and the People's  Christian Democratic Party (KDNP) five seats.
The MDF hopes that in the second round voters may support the government,  fearing a return of the communists after their gains in the first round.
MSZP leader Horn, 61, has expressed interest in becoming prime minister if  invited. He suffered a car accident before the first round and still appears  in public with a neck brace.
Another possible prime minister is MSZP economic spokesman and former  finance minister Laszlo Bekesi.
A decision on the government leader is to be taken on June 4 and Horn's  candidacy has run into opposition from SZDSZ leader Gabor Kuncze, 43, who  would be interested in the job himself.
Kuncze is however favourable to a coalition government with the  socialists, and the issue of the future government makeup has dominated debate  since the first round.
Both parties agree on foreign policy, calling for the normalisation of  relations with neighbouring countries with large Hungarian minorities,  membership of the European Union and closer ties with the North Atlantic  Treaty Organisation.
On economic issues, they both aim to temper the government's privatisation  policies and return to a balanced budget.
