Palestinian police have arrested two  Moslem fundamentalists since being deployed in the newly-autonomous Gaza  Strip, Palestinian sources said Friday.
An armed and masked HAMAS supporter was detained in Gaza City on Friday  after a family dispute, between militant supporters and those who back the PLO  leader Yasser Arafat's Fatah faction.
And the Islamic Jihad accused the Palestinian police of having arrested  one of its militants, journalist Hani Abed, on Tuesday, holding him in the  central Gaza prison evacuated two weeks ago by the Israeli army.
"Those called the 'Palestinian security services' are acting like the new  oppressors and bringing the prisons back into use. It is the continuation of  the Zionist oppression which we thought had ended in Gaza," the group said.
Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility for the killing of two soldiers last  week in Gaza.
The Israeli army has handed over control of the Gaza Strip to the new  police force under the terms of the Israel-PLO autonomy accord signed in Cairo  on May 4.
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said Friday all the Palestinian  policemen had been appointed with Israel's approval.
And he revealed Israel had vetoed hundreds of Palestinians "from abroad  who were proposed to us, and our veto prevented them from coming."
"Not one Palestinian policeman in the territories has been recruited  without our agreement and we will not stop verifying to make sure it stays  that way," said Rabin.
His comments came after Israeli press revelations that brothers Rajah and  Amr Abu Sita, two members of the Fatah armed wing, had been enrolled in the  police force.
They have been wanted by Israeli authorities since March 1993 for the  murder of a Jewish settler in the Strip.
Meanwhile, the Palestinian police commander for the north of Gaza, General  Fahed al-Ajez, said Israeli troops had violated the autonomy accord at least  40 times since being redeployed.
He charged soldiers often insulted Palestinian police manning barricades,  while Palestinians crossing into Israel had been beaten by soldiers.
