A second private bank in the Philippines has sought  emergency standby assistance from the government after being hit by a  securities scam, its president said here on Monday.
Planters Development Bank (PDB), whose investors include government banks,  the Asian Development Bank and the Netherlands Development Finance Co., said  its application for a standby loan was just a "prudent move."
PDB president Flordelis Aguenza said in a statement that the application  filed with the Central Bank (CB) was to prepare the PDB "for unpredictable  reactions that the public may have due to negative news reports."
There have been fears of bank runs after a scandal erupted here last week  over the collapse of an unlicensed trading firm, Bancapital Development Corp.  (Bancap), before it could deliver millions of dollars in government securities  to clients in the secondary market.
One of the victims, the Bank of Commerce, has sought a 500 million peso  (18.5 million dollar) emergency loan from the CB, which estimates that a total  of 938 million pesos was involved in the scandal.
The PDB, which reported a net income of 160 million pesos in 1993, did not  specify how much money it wanted available from the CB, but stressed that all  securities it ordered from Bancap, worth 41.6 million pesos, were delivered.
The government has made it clear that it will not allow any bank to  collapse over the scandal, and has ordered a manhunt for executives of Bancap,  whose top executives have gone missing.
A spokesman said PDB is the largest private development bank in the  country and lends mostly to small and medium-scale borrowers in the  countryside.
The Philippine Senate has launched an investigation on the scandal, apart  from police and justice departments investigations.
Senators said that Bancap officials should be criminally prosecuted, and  criticized CB and Securities and Exchange Commission officials for allowing  such an unlicensed trading firm to operate, the official Philippine News  Agency reported.
