A scathing indictment of President Bill Clinton's  foreign policies has been made by the International Institute of Strategic  Studies in a survey released Monday.
Clinton has suffered "embarrassing foreign policy fiascos in Somalia and  Haiti", said the group, an independent London-based think tank dealing with  international security, conflict and arms issues.
In peacekeeping missions the United States has opted to take minimal  risks. "The US would insist on no open-ended commitments, assurance of victory  without casualty and an exit strategy," said the report.
In Somalia for instance, "It took very decisive US action to create the  multilateral force... But it took very few American's deaths to convince  Clinton that if the Somalis would not play the game the way he wanted to play  it, it was time to gather up his marbles and go home," said the report.
"Somalia has been left perhaps somewhat better off than it was before, but  not as good as it should have been," the report concluded.
Haiti presented yet another great fiasco, said the IISS.
"US policy towards Haiti has left the country probably worse than it had  been," the report said.
"Having supported the concept that Father (Jean-Bertrand) Aristide...  should be restored to the presidency of his country, the US has reneged,"  charged the IISS.
This action "is one that hurts the poor of the country more than those in  power," the report said.
On Bosnia the United States has been ridiculed by the Europeans after the  US proposal to lift the arms embargo and lead air strikes, said the IISS.
The report noted, "the Americans who had no back-up proposal, retreated  from the scene, surprising some with the rapidity of their retreat."
However the IISS were more positive over Clinton's handling of of domestic  issues - listing  victories such as forging a budget bill, pressing for a  resolution in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and signing the North  American Free Trade Agreement.
Howver Clinton made a number of errors which left his administration  seeming confused and inept, said the report.
Clinton was also unable to shake off a financial scandal (Whitewater) and  accusations of sexual peccadillos which have dogged him since his days of  governor in Arkansas, it added.
In his second year in office Clinton "was facing a daunting agenda having  piled reforms of health care atop reform of welfare atop a further struggle  over budget cuts", IISS said.
"In spring 1994, the jury was still out: Most Americans gave him high  marks for his energy and willingness to do something about abiding problems,  but may doubted he could do so much so quickly.
"Neither the volatile electorate nor more judicious obeservers, have yet  made their judgements on the Clinton Administration.
"Both are waiting to see which Bill Clinton prevails - the inexperienced  compromiser, or the bright energetic leader who changes America for the  better," concluded the report.
(attention embargo)
