Police in Crimea are turning a deaf  ear to orders from the Ukrainian government telexed to garrisons in the  peninsula Monday instructing them to acknowledge Kiev's authority.
Vyacheslav Feodorov has already sworn two loyalty oaths in his 32-year  career in the police, first to the Soviet Union, then to Ukraine. He is now  preparing to swear a third, this time to Crimea where support for secession is  strong.
Like Feodorov, police at the main police barracks in Simferopol are firmly  on the side of General Valery Kuznetsov, the Crimean interior minister and  chief military adviser to the autonomous region's pro-Russian nationalist  president Yuri Meshkov.
In the week-old tug-of-war over control of the security forces in Crimea,  there is no doubt that the separatists in Simferopol now have the upper hand.
"Our job is maintaining law and order and we do not get involved in  politics.  But obviously our boss is Kuznetsov," said Feodorov, who was born  in Russia before his family moved to Crimea in 1948.
He said Kuznetsov took care of his men, visited policemen wounded on the  job and had also suggested that the barracks provide food for militiamen  earning only 700,000 coupons (about 20 dollars) a month, Feodorov said.
He said Kuznetsov, a former Red Army general who served in Afghanistan,  had twice visited the barracks since taking over in April whereas his  predecessor who was viewed as a "Kiev man" had never been once.
"Crimea has a parliament, a constitution and a president. It's up to our  president to appoint ministers and not Kiev," added Nikolai Sheshlakov, a  militia major.
A decree issued last week by Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk putting  all police in Crimea under the authority of Kiev has remained a dead letter.
Kuznetsov, whose appointment by Meshkov was endorsed by the Crimean  parliament, holds court in a large office at the interior ministry. A rival  "interior minister" appointed by Kiev and the Ukrainian deputy interior  minister who arrived in Crimea last week have been relegated to the  prefectoral headquarters on the other side of the street.
Kravchuk's minister has been simply ignored by the local authorities.
"Some people don't like our policies. But we intend to go ahead. We do not  have to bow to orders and ultimatums," said Kuznetsov.
Ukraine has given Crimea until next Monday to reverse a parliamentary move  reviving a constitution which Kiev views as tantamount to a declaration of  independence.
"Today we are the most militarised region in Europe," Kuznetsov said,  adding that Kiev had deployed some 50,000 troops in the peninsula.
Kuznetsov is protected everywhere he goes by bodyguards known as "Berkuts"  - elite troops armed with automatic rifles.  "An attempt to assassinate me  could trigger an explosion," Kuzetsov said.
"It would only need a small provocation to put a spark to the powder. We  are ready for any eventuality," Major Valery Posmetny, the commander of the  Simferopol militia, warned.
