The second Berlin international airshow (ILA)  opened Saturday with Germany's leading aviation firm, Deutsche Aerospace  (DASA), earning a public rebuke from a government minister over its absence.
Opening the proceedings at the German capital's Schoenefeld airport,  Economics Minister Guenter Rexrodt criticised DASA for staying away.
"I am bitter to see that a German firm, which like no other has received  massive aid from the German government, has not seen fit to support the  efforts of the government and the state of Brandenburg to help the ILA again  become one of the great international shows."
Rexrodt noted the ILA had been the world's first airshow, making its debut  in 1909 in Frankfurt before losing ground to the French show at Le Bourget,  now seen as the premier event in the aviation world.
Organisers hope to restore the ILA to its position as one of the key  events in the aviation calendar alongside Le Bourget, Farnborough (Britain)  and Singapore.
This year's show, which runs until June 5, is to play host to 390  exhibitors from 29 countries. Many eastern European firms are represented as  the show looks set to become a focal point of east-west aeronautical  cooperation.
In all, 230 aircraft will be on display at the ILA, including the  medium-haul Airbus A-321 and its long-haul cousin, the A-340.
Helicopters also form a key part of the exhibition, with displays from  several leading constructors including US firm Bell Helicopter Textron,  Italy's Agusta SpA and the Franco-German Eurocopter.
Tragedy hit the run-up to the show's opening on Friday when one person was   killed and another injured as a small Russian passenger plane crashed at  Schoenefeld.
The plane, a YAK 58 which can carry six passengers, crashed at low  altitude near the exhibition stands as it was preparing to land.
Airport police said the dead man was understood to be the Russian pilot.  The plane was taking part in a series of test flights to check flight  demonstration security during the ILA.
