The United States are not the only team who will  feel at home during the 15th World Cup.
Ever since the finals were first awarded to America, Italy have been  pencilled in to play in New York, home to millions of Americans of Italian  descent.
The appeal of teams that could count on large ethnic backing was a key  factor in awarding the finals to a non-football-playing country. Italy's  opening match against Ireland is a dream tie for the organisers of USA '94,  but it could easily have all gone badly wrong.
Arrigo Sacchi's side did not finally clinch their qualification until  eight minutes from the end of their last group match against Portugal. After  some early shocks, they could easily have missed the finals for only the  second time in their history.
That they pulled through to take their place as one of the top six seeds,  was almost entirely due to the brilliance of Roberto Baggio, whose efforts for  club and country earned him European and world player of the year awards.
At every crucial stage in the group, the Juventus forward somehow managed  to get Italy out of trouble. In what turned out be the decisive match in the  group, Baggio scored a superb opener and then made two more as Italy beat  Portugal 3-1 in Porto.
At the climax, Baggio was there again, creating all four goals Italy  scored in winning their final two matches. How important he is was all too  apparent in March when injury kept him out of the 2-0 defeat by Germany in a  World Cup warm-up.
Sacchi's cause has not been helped by a tough draw. The Italians will not  relish the physical style of the Irish and Norway's qualifying victories over  England and Holland signalled their emergence as a major European power.
Mexico will also be no pushovers.
But for all their problems, the Italians' World Cup pedigree and the best  defence in the world means it would be a major surprise if they did not reach  at least the quarter-finals.
Champions for the third time in Spain in 1982, they reached the second  round in Mexico four years later. At home in 1990, only a penalty shoot out  against Argentina cost them a final place.
The problem for Sacchi, whose reputation is based on creating the  all-conquering AC Milan of the eighties, is that Italy's fate appears entirely  dependent on the form of Baggio.
