The international community is showing signs of  "considerable impatience" with the parties to the Bosnian conflict who now  face the "obligation" to conclude a truce at talks in Geneva, the Russian  envoy to ex-Yugoslavia, Vitaly Churkin, said here Tuesday.
Speaking after talks with Croatian President Franjo Tudjman, Churkin said  he believed obstacles to talks on a cessation of hostilties to have been  cleared.
A truce would be the first step in implementing a plan of action agreed by  European foreign ministers at Geneva on May 13, he added, referring to a  proposal strongly urged by the ministers to partition Bosnia into a  Croat-Moslem federation holding 51 percent of the territory and a Serb entity  with 49 percent.
The talks, scheduled for Thursday and Friday, have been called by UN envoy  Yasushi Akashi to bring together the political and military leaders of all  parties involved along with all international mediators, with a view to  calling a ceasefire in Bosnia-Hercegovina.
The Bosnian Serbs said Tuesday that they will attend the talks, though  Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic has threatened to boycott the meeting. He  said he hesitated to send a delegation to Geneva while Bosnian Serb soldiers  were still inside the UN-imposed exclusion zone around the eastern Bosnian  town of Gorazde, a UN-declared safe haven. Croat attendance in Geneva has not  been confirmed.
"I have no written underaking (from the three sides) but I think they will  go to Geneva," Churkin said.
He said he believed the parties to the conflict now faced "the obligation  to go there and to conclude an accord on a cessation of hostilities."
He was to travel to Sarajevo Wednesday to meet Izetbegovic and Bosnian  Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic.
In Zagreb UN spokesman Michael Williams said Akashi expected "all the  parties" to the war in Bosnia to take part in the truce talks.
Earlier Churkin met Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic in Belgrade. He  said afterwards the Serbian leader had assured him Belgrade wanted an end to  the Bosnian conflict.
"Milosevic assured me that Serbia strongly supported the idea of an end to  the fighting in Bosnia," Churkin said, quoted by the Tanjug news agency.
A statement released by Milosevic's office said the Serbian leader and  Churkin had "exchanged views on the current questions around a political  solution to the Yugoslav crisis.
"In line with its well-known position that the Bosnia-Hercegovina crisis  should be resolved by negotiation and not by arms, Serbia supports a global  ceasefire accord to cover the entire territory of the former  Bosnia-Hercegovina and a lasting political solution allowing the lifting of  sanctions against Yugoslavia," the statement added.
Churkin is expected to attend the Geneva talks along with his American  counterpart Charles Redman and peace mediators Thorvald Stoltenberg, of the  United Nations, and Lord Owen, of the European Union.
