South Korean President Kim Young-Sam said Monday the  North Korean nuclear standoff had entered a "crucial" stage because of North  Korea's refusal to allow monitoring of the discharge of spent reactor fuel  rods.
"We must be ready for any urgent situations," presidential spokesman Choo  Don-Shik quoted Kim as telling an inter-ministerial coordination meeting.
The conference came one day ahead of an expected UN Security Council  meeting which will discuss the possibility of sanctions against North Korea  for its refusal to allow international inspectors to monitor the removal of  spent fuel rods from a five-megawatt reactor at its nuclear complex in  Yongbyon.
Kim urged North Korea to stop its refuelling operation, the presidential  spokesman said, adding that cabinet members agreed that the nuclear issue has  entered a its most critical stage so far.
"Our will should not be considered mere rhetoric," the spokesman declared.
The two-hour conference was called to study possible action in case the UN  Security Council decides on sanctions against North Korea, although cabinet  members held out hopes of a last-minute settlement between Pyongyang and the  International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Choo said.
The nuclear dispute cannot be considered a catastrophe yet as Pyongyang  still wants to hold high-level talks with Washington, he added.
Referring to Pyongyang's brinkmanship, seen here as aimed at drawing  maximum concessions from Washington, a presidential aide said North Korea was  staking everything on what appears to be its "riskiest" game yet.
He suggested North Korea might have pushed ahead with the fuel operation  to keep up the uncertainty over its nuclear program.
Washington suspects North Korea may have diverted plutonium from the  reactor in past years, and says outside checks are essential to determine  whether the isolated communist regime has embarked on a nuclear weapons  program.
Following the breakdown of negotiations last week with North Korea, the  IAEA said about half the fuel had been discharged from the reactor in a  pattern that has "precluded the agency's ability to implement the full range  of safeguard measures required."
The IAEA also accused Pyongyang of accelerating the discharge of fuel rods  to make it impossible for inspectors to verify whether plutonium had been  diverted for military use.
At Monday's conference, Kim instructed his cabinet to keep close contact  with the United States and other concerned countries, and to prepare for any  emergency which might be created by North Korea in a crisis.
At Kim's request, South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-Joo began  summoning the envoys of the United States, Japan, Russia and China on Monday  for urgent consultations.
In his first meeting with US ambassador James Laney, Han stressed that  North Korea should allow the IAEA to monitor the removal of spent fuel if it  wants to improve relations with Washington, Han's office said.
Laney said that Washington would open high-level talks with Pyongyang only  after getting it to allow the international nuclear watchdog to inspect the  discharge of fuel rods at its reactor in Yongbyon.
