Russia and Ukraine confirmed Tuesday an agreement  on dividing up the disputed Black Sea Fleet, but failed to break a deadlock  over where each side's ships should be stationed, a Russian delegate to talks  here said.
Negotiators, who were locked here late Tuesday in a second day of  top-level talks on splitting the Fleet, confirmed the April 22 accord giving  Kiev control over 164 ships and Moscow ownership of the remaining 669.
But the unnamed official said the delegations had thus far failed to  decide which ships would go to which side, and where their home ports would be  situated.
Moscow is seeking to retain the Crimean port of Sevastopol -- the current  headquarters of the Fleet -- as the home base for its vessels, and also wants  the use of four other Crimean ports.
Kiev, meanwhile, wants to restrict Moscow's fleet to one Ukrainian base,  and is anxious to retain Sevastopol for its own fleet.
The delegations did not pass comment on the current political crisis  between Ukraine and Crimea.
In Brussels Tuesday Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev was quoted by  the Interfax agency as saying he supported the fleet's Russian  commander-in-chief's official policy of non-interference in the crisis.
Grachev added that manoeuvres by Ukrainian forces in the autonomous  republic in recent days were a form of "moral and psychological pressure" on  Crimean authorities but "present no military threat".
The delegations to the fleet talks were headed by Russian Prime Minister  Viktor Chernomyrdin and his Ukrainian counterpart Efrim Zviagilsky.
Crimean Prime Minister Yevgeny Saburov joined the second day of of the  talks, called after presidents Boris Yeltsin (Russia) and Leonid Kravchuk  (Ukraine) agreed to divide up the fleet and set up separate bases at a meeting  in Moscow last month.
Zviagilsky was quoted by ITAR-TASS as saying earlier Tuesday: "The  successful settlement of the issue of dividing up the Black Sea fleet will  stabilise the whole situation in Crimea."
The Ukraine-Crimea crisis eased Tuesday, a Ukrainian official said, as the  countries' legislatures reportedly agreed to suspend inflammatory resolutions  that triggered the dispute.
Boris Oleynik, the head of the Ukrainian delegation to bilateral talks here  said both sides had agreed to "refrain from any new measures" which might  aggravate the situation.
A deputy from Crimea told the Interfax news agency that under the  agreement Crimean deputies pledged not to act on a resolution passed Friday to  implement a 1992 constitution granting the region greater autonomy from Kiev.
The Ukrainian parliament agreed to hold fire on its own resolution Friday  declaring the Crimean move illegal and giving the local legislature until  Monday to reverse its decision, the deputy added.
