a privilege the US gives to almost everyone
WASHINGTON, May 22 (AFP) - Most Favored Nation status is not as special as  it sounds -- in fact it is a privilege that Washington extends to almost all  its trading partners.
Under the rules of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT),  Washington is basically obliged to offer its lowest possible tariffs to all  other GATT members.
Notable exceptions include North Korea, Laos, Vietnam, Cuba, Afghanistan,  the rump Yugoslavia, Serbia and Cambodia.
And Haiti, Iraq and Libya would normally benefit from MFN status, but are  subject to trade embargoes so it does not apply.
China is something of a special case because as a non-GATT member, its MFN  status depends on a bilateral agreement with Washington.
Things are complicated by a US law stating that MFN cannot be granted to  communist countries unless they are allowing emigration -- a clause introduced  essentially to pressure the Soviet Union to allow the departure of Jews.
This law requires the president to certify each year that this condition  has been met for MFN to continue.
President Bill Clinton added more restrictions last year with a slew of  human rights conditions in addition to emigration.
Withdrawing China's MFN would thus put Beijing at a massive disadvantage  in competing on the US market because the tariffs on its goods would suddenly  be sharply higher than those of almost all of its competitors.
The average tariff on Chinese goods imported to the United States -- which  were worth a total 31.4 billion dollars last year -- would soar from eight  percent to 40 percent.
And China would likely retaliate, boosting tariffs on US exports which are  far smaller -- 8.6 billion dollars last year -- but rising rapidly.
Some 160,000 US jobs depend directly on exports to China, according to the  US Commerce Department.
But manufacturers say the number is probably higher, and does not take  into account the loss of potential jobs in the future if Washington is shut  out of the fast-growing Chinese market.
