Hungarian voters on Sunday placed their fate  firmly in the hands of erstwhile communist reformers in the Socialist Party,  spurning a four-year old center-right coalition widely dismissed here as  incompetent.
Hungary is thus set to join Poland in moving back to the left in an an  apparent backlash against market-oriented economic reform. Former communists  dominated general elections in Poland last September.
After a second round of voting Sunday, the Socialist Party (MSZP) had  garnered an absolute majority in the 386-member legislature, capturing 209  seats -- a six-fold increase on its score in 1990 elections.
The MSZP thrashed the Democratic Forum (MDF), the main party in the  outgoing conservative coalition that is made up of former dissidents in  Hungary's communist era.
Paying a bitter price for having failed to meet post-communist aspirations  of the country's 10.4 million people, the Forum managed to win only 37 seats  -- down from 165 in the previous parliament.
In second place is the liberal Alliance of Free Democracts (SZDSZ), which  took 70 seats and is a probable coalition partner for the socialists.
Socialist leader Gyula Horn, a 61-year-old former foreign minister,  immediately sought to allay fears -- raised during the campaign by the MDF --  of a return to political domination by a single, leftist party.
"Hungary needs inter-party cooperation," Horn stressed, describing the  liberals as his party's "natural partners."
Anxious to show that his victory will prove acceptable abroad, he  disclosed that Austrian Chancellor Franz Vranitsky, a social democrat, had  telephoned his congratulations.
"The people expect honest policies from us," Horn declared during the  campaign. "We want to work for the well-being of the population and not for  our own profit."
The socialists, he said, are determined to secure a fairer distribution of  the costs of reconstruction.
"It is unacceptable that people who must live entirely on their salaries  are the only ones to bear such costs."
The party is expected to name a government of experts, in contrast to the  outoing administration that was dominated by professors and historians and  criticized by many here as having been incompetent.
But in parliament, the socialists will have to relay on support from other  parties in order to push through substantive reforms. Amending existing  legislation, notably on the press and electoral procedures, requires a  two-thirds majority, or 258 votes.
The liberals in the Alliance of Free Democrats acknowledged late Sunday  that they had failed to attain one of their principal objectives -- denying  the socialists an absolute majority.
As a result, the Alliance now fears that in a coalition with the Socialist  Party it may have trouble making its voice heard.
Both parties agree that Hungary should join the European Union and seek  closer ties with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
They have likewise cautioned voters that it will take at least two years  to bring about a marked improvement in living standards.
Both Horn and the head of the Alliance, 43-year-old economist Gabor Kuncze  have expressed an interest in serving as prime minister in a coalition  government.
The Socialist Party is to hold a congress next week end to determine its  coalition plans and its choice of prime minister, after which the liberals are  expected to meet.
Other parties gaining places in the new parliament are the Small  Independent Property Holders (FKGP), 26 seats, the Christian Democrats (KDNP),  22, the Free Federation of Young Democrats (FIDESZ), 20, the Agrarian  Federation, one, and the Entrepreneurs Party, one.
