The Krupp steel group expects to emerge  into profits this year from a loss of 589 million marks (355 million dollars)  last year flowing from a collapse in the market for steel, the company said on  Wednesday.
Group president Gerhard Cromme told the annual conference on the balance  sheet that "group operations should begin to be in balance towards the middle  of the year and should yield operating profits from the second half".
The group reported a net loss of 589 million marks in 1993 after a loss of  250 million marks in 1992, the annual report recalled.
The profits in the second half of this year should compensate for losses  in the first half, Cromme said. In the first quarter the group had made an  operating loss of 30 million marks, he said.
Since a merger in January 1993 the company is known as Fried. Krupp AG  Hoesch-Krupp.
It said that unconsolidated sales in the first quarter had increased by  five percent to 5.7 billion marks. The amount of new orders, on an  unconsolidated basis, had risen by 12 percent from the figure for the same  period of 1993 to 6.6 billion marks.
Cromme said that the situation in the steel market remained difficult  "mainly because prices were unsatisfactory" but that he expected prices to  rise.
The steel division would continue to make a loss in 1994, but the losses  would be smaller than they had been last year.
The Thyssen steel group, which had made a loss of 994 million marks in  1992-93, had until June 15 to reach an agreement with Krupp on restructuring.  The intention was to create subsidiaries for special rolled steel in which  Krupp would hold a majority stake, and for tin and plate for magnetic circuits  in which Thyssen would hold a majority.
The annual report recalled that sales last year had declined by 10 percent  to 24.2 billion marks from 26.9 billion marks.
Cromme condemned what he termed "unfair" competition by foreign subsidised  groups.
The group, which has reduced the number of people it employs from 50,000  in 1980 to 22,576 in 1993, plans to reduce the number to 15,900 this year.
It said that in 1993 sales abroad had risen by 50 percent. Sales in the  United States had risen to 2.5 billion marks from two billion marks.
Krupp-Hoesch planned to participate in a 50/50 venture with a consortium of  the Italian companies Falck, Riva and Tadfin to acquire the Italian Terni (AST  SpA) steel works which is a subsidiary of the Italian state-owned group Ilva.
A bid had been made on May 13 in the context of privatisation of the  Italian steel industry.
The Italian state has created AST SpA as an umbrella for small and  profitable steel companies.
Cromme said that his company wanted to see the establishment of "two solid  groups so that together we can define an international strategy in the field  of special rolled steels".
He said: "We are not going into this to suppress businesses but to  establish a long-term industrial concept with the management of Terni".
