Compliance with the Executive Order
The Executive Order issued last year renewed China's most favored nation  (MFN) status until June 3, 1994, but conditioned further extension on  additional human rights progress in seven conditions, two of which are  mandatory. The Executive Order requires the Secretary of State to advise the  President whether China has made "overall, significant progress" in the other  five areas.
Following review of the Secretary of State's assessment and  recommendation, the President has determined that:
A. The Chinese government has met the two mandatory conditions in the  Executive Order:
1. Freedom of emigration (Jackson-Vanik). The Chinese government has  resolved all of the emigration cases we presented to it, all of which involved  blocked passports or exit visas for dissidents or relatives of escaped  dissidents.
2. Compliance with the 1992 bilateral agreement between the United States  and China concerning prison labor. This condition requires compliance with the  1992 agreement under which the US identifies suspect facilities for the  Chinese government to investigate. Following such an investigation, US Customs  can request to visit the facility. Agreement was reached last March on an  implementation declaration specifying a 60-day deadline for these  investigations, enuring prompt investigations and follow-up inspections. Since  this March agreement, the Chinese have undertaken four investigations of cases  we presented to them and permitted US customs to investigate one facility on  May 20. This process is in compliance with the 1992 Bilateral Agreement on  prison labor and helps lay the foundation for progress toward ending the  export of prison labor products to the US.
B. While there has been some progress in the other specified areas, the  Chinese have not achieved "overall significant progress" in these five areas:
1. Begin adhering to the Universal Declaration on Human Rights. During his  March trip to Beijing, Secretary Christopher pressed the Chinese government  for a public statement of adherence to the Universal Declaration on Human  Rights. Foreign Minister Qian Qichen made such a public statement on April 6  indicating that China will abide by the Declaration. At the same time, Chinese  practices have often been inconsistent with the Universal Declaration on Human  Rights.
2. Releasing/providing an acceptable accounting for political and religious  prisoners. China has released two of the leading Tiananmen Square dissidents,  Wang Juntao and Chen Ziming, as well as 6 religious dissidents and several  prominent Tibetans. Although we lack precise statistics, at least 19 others  from lists we presented the Chinese have been released from detention.
On the accounting side, China has provided limited data on 235 prisoners  to Secretary Christopher, as well as additional data on 107 Tibetans this past  week (this is the first time that China has ever provided data on Tibetan  prisoners.)
