Hodgson certainly did not seem to have the pedigree to lift Switzerland to  such heights.
Having failed to make the grade in first-class football in England, he  played in South Africa before returning to Europe, where another English boss  in exile, Bobby Houghton, helped him get a management job in Sweden.
After four years with Halmstad, Hodgson returned to England, He eventually  made his way to Switzerland. An instant hit, he took Neuchatel Xamax to the  brink of the championship title in 1991 and 1992 before being put in charge of  the national team.
Unlike the side's previous manager, Uli Stielike, himself a former World  Cup star with Germany, Hodgson managed to motivate a Swiss side long relegated  to the lower reaches of European football.
He took advantage of the talent available in Switzerland to mould a team  that combines youthful vitality with experience, and includes four German  Bundesliga professionals.
Prolific forward Stephane Chapuisat has spearheaded Borrussia Dortmund's  league campaigns for the past two seasons and scored six goals in the World  Cup qualifying campaign.
Chapuisat is joined by Kaiserslautern's Ciriaco Sforza, Adrian Knup of  Stuttgart and Nuremberg midfielder Alain Sutter.
Hodgson says his players' willingness to shed their star status and go  back to the basics has been the key to their success.
"Internationals are all, to varying degrees, stars, and I doubt if many do  the amount of real, basic coaching ours do", he says.
"They see it as an affront to their status to be moved into positions and  told, 'When this happens, it's your signal to do that'.
"But mine have done it -- one or two a bit less than the others -- and any  success I've had lies in having persuaded them to accept that discipline."
Switzerland factfile
Manager: Roy Hodgson
Swiss federation : Founded in 1895, 1,473 clubs, 185,286 players.
Colours: Red shirts, white shorts, red stockings.
Key players: Stephane Chapuisat, Adrian Knup, Alain Sutter (Nuremberg).
World Cup: 7th appearance. Last appearance in 1966
How they qualified: Runners-up to Italy in European group one.
