Doctors and relief workers in Kigali are toiling  day and night against overwhelming odds to save the lives of children and  women encamped in squalid settlements dotted around Rwanda's blood-drenched  capital.
"There are four Red Cross doctors in Kigali and a Ghanaian army doctor  with the UN who is performing 300 operations a day on the wounded," Roger  Carter of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) said Wednesday.
Carter told reporters on his return from Kigali that the capture of Kigali  airport and a nearby army base by rebels Sunday had hindered food distribution  to about 12,500 desperate and hungry displaced people in 11 makeshift camps.
Relief workers can no longer cross the front line from rebel-held areas to  government territory for fear of getting caught in crossfire, and can now  reach only about 3,000 people, he said.
"The government has switched off water supplies to areas not under their  control and that's made conditions even worse," Carter said.
He said 45 percent of Kigali's displaced people were children and 35  percent women.
Most have been wounded by shrapnel during artillery duels between the  rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and the army.
About 1,500 people, mostly Hutus, are cowering in a hangar at the airport,  fearing reprisals by the mainly Tutsi rebels for the slaughter of Tutsis by  Hutu militias. But the reprisals have not come, Carter said.
Up to half a million Rwandans, mostly minority Tutsis and Hutu opposition  supporters, have been hacked, clubbed, burned or shot to death since the April  6 death of president Juvenal Habyarimana in a suspected rocket attack on his  plane unleashed frenzied ethnic slaughter.
Thousands of Hutus are fleeing Kigali before an expected rebel takeover  which they fear will usher in retaliation for the deaths of up to half a  million people, mostly Tutsis and Hutu opposition supporters, in a six-week  bloodbath, relief officials said.
"There is a general food shortage in Kigali, as currently UNICEF is using  only one C-130 aircraft to bring in supplies," Carter said.
He said he was hoping more aircraft would be made available, but all relief  flights were suspended Wednesday after a bullet hole was found in a UN plane  on its return to Nairobi from Kigali, UN officials said.
"There is going to be serious malnutrition in the city in the next 10 to  12 days," Carter said. It has already been 10 days since UNICEF last  distributed food to the displaced people's camps, he added.
Carter estimated that 50,000 to 70,000 civilians remained in Kigali with  another 200,000 in surrounding areas.
UNICEF plans to start vaccinating children in the rebel-held north on  Thursday to prevent the spread of epidemics, Carter said.
