Sweden's coach Tommy Svensson has the task of  putting his country's national team back on the map after their appalling  showing in the 1990 World Cup.
Only four teams out of 24 lost all their matches at Italia '90, and  Sweden, finalists on home soil in 1958, were one of them.
USA, South Korea and the United Arab Emirates, unlike Sweden with little  footballing tradition, also lost every single game.
Sweden's 3-1 victory over African champions Nigeria earlier this month was  a promising warm-up result, but Nigeria were without their top players.
Nigerian strikers Rashid Yekini, Daniel Amokachi, and Emmanuel Ammunike,  who scored two goals against Zambia in the African Cup final in his first  match of the tournament, were all absent.
And Sweden's three goals, by Stefan Schwarz, Henrik Larsson, and Klas  Ingesson, were scored against a defence marshalled by 33-year-old centreback  Stephen Keshi, who is past his best.
France's worst ever international result on October 13, a 3-2 loss at home  to Israel -- meant Sweden's 3-2 victory over Finland the same night was enough  to ensure qualification from European zone group six.
And, in a further piece of fortune, the Swedish bid to wipe out the  memories of 1990 has been boosted by the return of their best player.
Parma forward Thomas Brolin had quit international football in a rage  after Swedish papers published holiday pictures of him after he had had too  much to drink.
However he changed his mind to the relief of Swedish football enthusiasts.
Brolin's absence would have been sorely felt by Svensson, more so if he  had watched Parma's European Cup Winners' Cup final against Arsenal on May 4.
Though Parma lost 1-0, Brolin should have scored when his 14th minute shot  hit Arsenal's right-hand post and rebounded agonisingly back across the  goalline. He also headed over in another great chance to prove the top form  which Sweden will surely need next month.
Had Brolin maintained his position, goalscoring responsibilities would  have fallen heavily on Martin Dahlin, the player the Swedes can thank more  than any other for the ticket to America.
The Borussia Moenchengladback forward was the top scorer in group six with  seven goals and a constant driving force within Svensson's set-up.
