Japanese ministers predicted Tuesday that Washington  would back down on setting numerical targets for American access to Japanese  markets when trade talks resume.
There was evident relief in Tokyo at the news that the final obstacles to  an agreement to resume negotiations seemed to have been overcome in Washington.
Finance Minister Hirohisa Fujii said: "I believe that the both sides have  started understanding each other. Things are going on. I believe negotiatators  are proceeding with discussions sector by sector."
US and Japanese officials at the marathon talks in Washington said an  announcement would be made on Tuesday.
But Tokyo officials were less guarded about the outcome than their  counterparts in Washington who refused to say even if an agreement in  principle had been made.
Japanese Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa said he expected the United States  would announce "that it would not seek numerical targets."
American insistence on setting specific targets for US access to Japanese  markets have been one of the major sticking points between the two sides.
Targets were one of the key demands set by Washington to cut Japan's trade  surplus with the United States which has risen for three years running.
It jumped 11.8 percent from a year earlier to 51.1 billion dollars in the  year to March. Exports to the United States were up 10 percent at 108 billion  dollars in the year, US imports rose 8.4 percent to 57 billion dollars.
US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor had earlier said a Wall Street  Journal report that Washington was easing its demand for targets as  innacurate. "We have not backed off," Kantor told reporters. "We have never  asked for market share."
Similarly conciliatory noises came from Hiroshi Kumagai, Japanese chief  cabinet secretary, who told a news conference: "I don't think that the United  States originally sought numerical targets. Anyway, the Japanese government  will persist in refusing them."
The foreign minister noted that the agreement being hammered out in  Washington was only on the terms of resuming negotiations. He also hinted that  some parts could be finalised later on.
Kakizawa said agreement on some sectors might be left until closer to the  Group of Seven industrialised powers summit in July.
He added that he might go to Washington for the later talks. "If working-  level talks resume, I will consider it, I will observe the next developments."
