British Prime Minister John Major Friday found  himself at the centre of new political storm after he lambasted beggars as an  "offensive" eyesore and urged tough action against them.
Opposition Labour MPs and charity groups immediately accused Major of  shrugging off responsibility for dealing with the homeless after his remarks  were published in a west of England newspaper, the Bristol Evening Post.
But Conservatives said Major had struck a populist chord that would be  welcomed in cities where vagrancy and aggressive begging posed a threat to  tourism and trade.
Public sympathy for street beggars has been undermined by court cases and  reports concerning professional beggars who make a living on the street.
One gang in the London Underground was reported this month to be earning  20,000 a week (30,000 dollars) by posing as Bosnian refugees.
And Tory MP Peter Bottomley said he had encountered a man begging for food  who had difficulty walking because his pockets were "full of cash."
But Labour's shadow housing minister, John Battle, said it was a favourite  tactic to scapegoat the homeless as unwelcome beggars.
"Homeless people in poverty are not street scroungers. It is totally  depressing that the social evils of homelessness and poverty are thriving in  modern Britain," he argued.
"Many young people are forced to beg on the streets. John Major's  Government must bear some responsibility for this, as they ended benefits for  16 and 17-year-olds."
Shelter, the charity for the homeless, issued a statement saying: "He  (Major) should address the underlying causes of homelessness, the lack of low  cost homes, and the lack of benefits for young people which forces them on to  the streets."
One beggar from Bristol was quoted by the BBC as saying: "Well, he's got  loads of money, hasn't he (Major)? So he doesn't know what it's like to have  to do it, because it's not exactly the most fun thing in the world to do --  sitting asking for money. It's degrading ..."
In the Evening Post interview, Major said beggars were "very offensive to  many people" and that law-abiding citizens should be more vigorous in  reporting them to the police.
"We have rigorous penalties against it and I think we should not shrink  from using these penalties," he said.
Major claimed the public benefit system eliminated the need for people to  resort to begging.
Vagrancy laws date from the last century and were introduced after the  Napoleonic wars to force former soldiers -- who were living rough -- off the  streets.
Under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act, begging is not an arrestable  offence, although someone can be taken into custody if he gives a false name,  causes an obstruction or fails to give an address.
But there are tougher penalties, with fines of up to 1,000 pounds (1,500  dollars) and a three-year maximum jail sentence for violent behaviour.
The press reported that every year about a thousand beggars are held for  questioning, of whom about three-quarters are cautioned.
Police say most are homeless and have less than 100 pounds (150 dollars)  cash.
Downing Street said Major was merely restating government policy and had  been responding to questions put by the local paper.
However, it was inevitable his remarks would provoke fierce reaction in  the run-up to European elections on June 9.
