Roman Herzog of the conservative Christian Union  parties was elected German president by a special federal assembly Monday  after the Free Democrat party withdrew its candidate and backed him.
Herzog, 60, won 696 votes, an absolute majority of the 1,324-member  assembly, in the third and final round of voting by federal members of  parliament and regional delegates gathered in the historic Berlin Reichstag.
The Social Democrats' candidate Johannes Rau won 605 votes.
In an emotional acceptance speech Herzog, a conservative jurist, pledged  to be "the president of all Germans" and abroad to represent a Germany  "without internal tensions."
Herzog, who on the third-round vote needed only a simple majority to be  elected, will take over from the retiring head of state Richard von  Weizsaecker on July 1 for a five-year term.
He had led in the first two ballots but failed to gain the absolute  majority needed at that stage.
The result was hailed by Chancellor Helmut Kohl, for whom a defeat of  Herzog would have been bad news ahead of legislative elections on October 16.
The FDP president and German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel said a majority  of the liberal party's representatives had decided to back Herzog with the  withdrawal of its candidate Hildegard Hamm-Bruecher after the second round.
The FDP's candidate won 133 votes in the first round but slipped to 126 in  the second round.
The Greens initially supported an independent, Jens Reich, but he withrew  after winning 62 votes in the first round. The far-right Republicans also put  up a last-minute candidate but he failed to win more than 12 votes.
Herzog, an expert in jurisprudence, currently heads the constitutional  court in Karlsruhe.
Weizsaecker has to retire because he will have served the maximum of two  five-year terms allowed by the constitution.
Herzog, who will be the seventh president of federal post-war Germany, was  also the first to be elected by representatives of all Germany following the  reunification of 1990.
Although the post is largely honorific, the election was bitterly contested  by the parties, for whom it had become a pointer to fortunes on October 16.
But Rau, premier of the important regional state of North  Rhine-Westphalia, would have won if the ballot were by universal suffrage,  according to opinion polls.
Under the constitution, the German president nominates the chancellor, or  head of federal government. He can also in certain circumstances dissolve the  Bundestag, or lower house of parliament.
He must sign all legislation and he exercises the right of clemency.
