Industrialized countries have squandered a  nearly one-trillion-dollar peace dividend, ignoring pressing social needs and  breeding conflict in the developing world, according to a UN report released  Wednesday.
"No one knows for sure where the savings from reduced military spending  are going," said James Speth, administrator of the United Nations Development  Program (UNDP), which issued the report.
Countries have cut military spending by about 3.6 percent a year since the  Cold War began winding down in 1987 -- freeing up some 935 billion dollars --  but social spending rose only slightly or remained static during the period,  the "Human Development Report 1994" said.
Some of the savings were spent on converting industries from military to  civilian purposes, but several industrialized countries have sought to  preserve defense jobs by increasing arms sales to poor countries, the  researchers said.
South Korea ordered 28 US missiles for an amount that could have immunized  all of its 120,000 unvaccinated children, the report said.
It added that India, the biggest conventional arms buyer in the developing  world, has ordered 20 advanced MiG fighter planes with funds that could have  educated 15 million girls currently not in school.
"Our report reaches the conclusion that countries spending very little on  defense and much more on human development -- which include Botswana, Costa  Rica and Mauritius -- have been a lot more successful than those spending  heavily on arms," said Mahbub ul Haq, the former Pakistani finance minister  who directed the report's research team.
"The top three countries showing the highest ratio of military spending to  social spending in 1980 were Iraq, Somalia and Nicaragua -- which failed to  protect their own people or even their national sovereignty," he added.
The report also points out that most of the conflicts today are in the  developing nations and lists eight "countries in crisis:" Afghanistan, Angola,  Haiti, Iraq, Mozambique, Burma, Sudan and Zaire.
Neglect of social needs has put those countries at risk for a  "Somalia-like national breakdown" according to the report, which said the  early warning signs were starvation, high unemployment, human rights abuses,  ethnic violence and an overemphasis on military spending.
Burma is particularly at risk, according to the report, which cites "gross  and persistent human rights abuses," a huge refugee problem and a military  budget of 35 percent of government spending.
The report also notes that South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa are spending  19 billion and eight billion dollars respectively on defense despite the some  800 million people living in absolute poverty in the regions.
A second peace dividend of 460 billion dollars could be in the world's  coffers if military spending is cut three percent from 1995 to 2000, said the  report, which noted that Japan and Australia still "have long-term commitments  to retain or even expand their arms industries."
The report calls for phasing out all military assistance programs and  setting up a fund for worldwide demilitarization into which developed  countries would put one fifth of their peace dividends and poor countries  would contribute one tenth.
The researchers also call for including poor countries in disarmament  pacts.
"The Cold War is not over yet, the job is only half-done," said Speth.
"All the disarmament talks have so far been between East and West, not  with Third World representatives. This must change in the future."
(attention embargo)
