President Ali Abdallah Saleh's government on  Thursday rejected a Saudi proposal for the UN Security Council to try to end  the three-week conflict in Yemen through a ceasefire and arms embargo.
Planning Minister Abdelkarim al-Iryani told reporters here the Saudi  proposal constituted "interference in Yemeni internal affairs."
Officials of the breakaway state in the south welcomed the proposal, but  said they were also prepared for a long war and accused the north of  escalating the conflict with a missile attack Thursday on the port of Aden.
Two Soviet-made Lunas were fired at the airport, but one plunged into the  sea and the other was hit in flight by anti-missile fire and disintegrated,  with debris damaging cars.
Northern forces loyal to the president also despatched a column of tanks  rumbling toward the Mukalla headquarters -- 300 kilometers (186 miles) to the  east of Aden -- of southern leader Ali Salem al-Baid.
Iryani said Saudi Arabia proposed a ceasefire, an arms embargo on Yemen,  the sending of a fact-finding mission to the country, continuation of the  dialogue opened between Sanaa and some southern leaders and a pledge by the  warring parties not to use force to resolve their dispute.
Riyadh had sent the proposal to the UN Security Council chairman on  Wednesday, he said.
Iryani said Saleh rejected the Saudi proposal during a meeting with the US  ambassador Arthur Hughes on Wednesday. Washington has been in contact with the  Yemeni factions and their Arab neighbours to try to end the war.
UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said Wednesday he hoped member  countries would call for UN intervention in the conflict, noting that the  Security Council could not act until requested.
Sources at UN headquarters said Saudi Arabia had had diplomatic contacts  with several members of the Security Council about the Yemeni situation.
Iryani warned: "If the Security Council interferes in Yemen's internal  affairs we will close our channel of contacts with the unity leaders in the  Yemen Socialist Party (YSP)," the main southern party led by Baid.
Iryani announced Wednesday that the Sanaa government had begun a dialogue  with senior YSP officials "who believe in unity," in a bid to achieve a  political solution to the conflict.
Presidential council member Salem Saleh Muhammad was "the main contact,"  he said. But the south denied there were contacts independent of the YSP  leadership.
Abdel Rahman al-Jiffri, vice president of the breakaway state with its  capital in Aden, told journalists that the Saudi proposal was welcome but said  the south was as much "ready to make peace as wage a long war."
If Saleh "agrees to meet me as vice president of the YDR (Yemen Democratic  Republic), I'm ready to go to Sanaa to talk with him," Jiffri said.
"We thank Saudi Arabia because we want peace and are against this dirty  war that we did not want. But we are strong enough to defend ourselves and our  capital," he said.
In stepped up diplomatic moves, Haidar Abu Bakr al-Attas, prime minister  of the renegade state, arrived in Cairo overnight Wednesday on the first leg  of an Arab tour that will also take him to Syria.
He asked for UN Security Council help after meeting for more than an hour  with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.
Parliamentary speaker sheikh Abdallah al-Ahmar, a Saleh loyalist, arrived  Wednesday in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates which was seen  as recognizing the new republic by referring to Baid as president.
On Thursday another northerner, Yahia al-Arshi, met Libyan leader Colonel  Moamer Kadhafi, who opposes the breakup of Yemen.
South Yemen on Thursday officially asked to recover its old seat in the  Arab League, officials at the Cairo-based league said. It would have to win  more than two-thirds support of the 22-member league to become a member.
Baid declared Yemen Democratic Republic in the south on Saturday, but the  north refuses to end the four year union. War broke out on May 5 after a  nine-month power struggle between Baid and Saleh.
