A Cambodian army officer said he beheaded three  Thais last month and regularly executed Khmer Rouge captives, a practice he  called widespread in the Cambodian civil war, the Phnom Penh Post reported  Friday.
"Both sides do it -- if we catch them, we kill them," he was reported as  saying in the English language bi-weekly. "If we catch a Khmer Rouge, we cut  their head off and send it back to them."
The unnamed junior officer said he beheaded three Thais working with the  Khmer Rouge near Treng in northwest Cambodia, where the army is slowly pushing  the rebels back to their Pailin capital, following an offensive earlier this  month.
No government official was immediately available for comment Friday.
"To show them that we were angry with them, we took a long time to kill  them," he was quoted as saying, referring to the Thais. "We used an old rusty  hacksaw to cut their heads off slowly."
But the officer said he had avoided personally decapitating Khmer Rouge  prisoners, beacause of their ethnic affinity with him, preferring to shoot  them instead.
Amnesty International condemned earlier this month human rights abuses by  both sides of the long-running Cambodian conflict after a photograph of a  severed rebel head displayed by government forces, came to light.
For its part, the government has said the Khmer Rouge had raped and  beheaded up to 10 wives of Cambodian government soldiers, who were former  allies of the rebel faction, in an attack on a village in northwest Banteay  Meanchey province.
Earlier, Thai army spokesman Colonel Phalangkul Klaharn, denied there were  Thai military or paramilitary forces involved in the Cambodian fighting.
He was responding to a statement by Cambodian ministry of information  spokesman Sieng Lapresse, that government forces had encountered foreigners  dressed in black with the Khmer Rouge guerrillas.
He remarked that "certain Thais where black", an apparent reference to the  Thai rangers unit that patrols the border between the two countries.
The government soldier said Friday that he had been forced to walk wounded  25 kilometers (15 miles) from the front, after officers commandeered army  trucks to carry away war booty, the newspaper reported.
He said corruption was responsible for the fall of Pailin on April 19 to  the Khmer Rouge, one month after it had been captured by the government, and  that his unit had killed its commanding officer rather than fight.
