Republican lawmakers fear a US invasion of  Haiti during the Memorial Day recess and have urged President Bill Clinton not  to authorize force, but expedite a processing facility for Haitian refugees.
"I really hope the president does not plan to invade Haiti during the  recess," Representative Newt Gingrich, Republican for Georgia, said before  Congress adjourned Thursday to reconvene June 7.
Representative Porter Gross, who asked the president, a Democrat, to  immediately stop repatriating Hatian boat people, said the presence of 650  marines and eight US warships off the coast of Haiti seemed very threatening.
"Our message is: do not use that muscle at this time," the Florida  Republican told reporters.
On announcing on May 7 his decision to give Haitian refugees immigration  hearings before repatriating them, Clinton did not rule out military force to  restore democracy and ousted president Jean-Bertrand Aristide in Haiti.
The House of Representatives this week approved a nonbinding amendment  recommending that a small Haitian island be used as a refugee processing  center and a base for a government in exile headed Aristide.
A spokesman for Aristide voiced support Thursday for using Ile de la  Gonave as a processing center -- "Anything is better than sending them back to  that hell hole," but not for establishing on it a government in exile.
"Basically, it's a tactic by people who want to stall and run out the  clock," Burton Wides said referring to Aristide's term in office which expires  at the end of next year. He was ousted in September 1991, six months after his  election.
Wides criticized a UN-sponsored, total economic embargo against Haiti that  went into effect Sunday as not going far enough. He also said Clinton could do  other things to pressure the Haitian military rulers to step down.
Wides mentioned freezing the assets here of all Haitians, not just  military leaders, and cancelling all visas.
"It's almost as if the (Clinton) administration is pushing itself into the  inevitability of either a military assault...or forcing Aristide to share  power," the spokesman said.
A group of Democratic congressmen asked Clinton Thursday to halt the  repatriation of Haitian refugees immediatly, in view of a new Haitian law  making it illegal to leave the island in makeshift boats.
Until a processing center is set up, Haitian people picked up at sea by  the US Coast Guard are being returned to their country.
Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York urged that all Haitian refugees  already in the United States or on their way here be immediately granted  "temporary protected status," to prevent them from being sent back "to prison,  torture and death."
