New Zealand produced a dismal showing against  Middlesex at Lord's on Saturday to fall to 100 for nine, though rain saved  them as the match was drawn.
Manager Geoff Howarth once again criticised his batsmen for their second  hopeless showing against the English county champions in the same week.
"It's not good enough," said the former Test captain after New Zealand had  crashed to 101 for nine. "People have got to get their act together and start  producing the goods."
Howarth blasted the Kiwis last weekend at Taunton where they were made to  follow-on by Somerset following a collapse to 182 all out.
Saturday's effort was even worse, with eight second innings wickets  falling for 31 in the space of 14 overs before lunch.
"We've done a lot of talking about the need for consistency," added  Howarth. "But sometimes talking is not enough. The experienced players have to  pull their weight and start playing as I know they can.
"This is the fourth innings out of six in first-class matches on this tour  when we've lost a stack of wickets in one session. We've got to toughen up. At  the moment positions one to 11 are a problem!"
Martin Crowe spared New Zealand's blushes against Somerset by hitting a  second innings century. But with their best batsman missing this game, there  was no-one to rescue them.
They started the final day in reasonable shape -- 127 runs ahead and with  nine wickets in hand. One wretched shot after another rapidly changed the  picture, however, and Middlesex were on course to pocket a 4,000 pound cheque  from match sponsors Tetley Bitter until rain washed out their victory hopes.
Blair Hartland drove Kevin Shine weakly to cover, Mark Greatbatch edged  19-year-old paceman Richard Johnson into the slip cordon and Shane Thomson  perished lbw to Middlesex's impressive teenager.
Stephen Fleming, who scored a stylish 118 not out in the first innings,  contributed just five this time before tamely cutting Shine to backward-point,  while Adam Parore was run out by Jason Pooley's direct hit from cover.
But worst of all was the way captain Ken Rutherford surrendered his wicket  after moving to 23 with the help of five boundaries. He followed a delivery  from Chas Taylor and inexplicably dabbed it into the gloves of Keith Brown.
With Matthew Hart deflecting an attempted forward defensive against Taylor  onto his stumps and Gavin Larsen losing an lbw decision to Mark Feltham, New  Zealand were a humiliating 73 for nine.
And that was against an attack minus Angus Fraser, Neil Williams, Phil  Tufnell and John Emburey.
