Italian premier Silvio Berlusconi denied Tuesday  having said that former Italian dictator Benito Mussolini "did some good  things for a while," as the controversy over neo-fascists in his government  continued.
"The interview was distorted," Berlusconi said, referring to comments  published in the Washington Post Saturday, and which were widely reported by  the Italian media.
He said he had a recording of the interview, showing that the quotes in  question were in fact his account of comments made by neo-fascist National  Alliance leader Gianfranco Fini.
"On the recording you can clearly here that I said 'He said' when  recounting what Fini said about Mussolini," Berlusconi said, speaking as he  emerged from a meeting of his Forza Italia party.
The Post quoted Berlusconi as saying Mussolini "did some good things for a  while" and "history confirms this." It said he was answering a question about  Fini's description of Mussolini as "the greatest statesman of the century."
But the incident came amid continuing controversy over five National  Alliance ministers included in Berlusconi's government, formed following the  success of his right-wing alliance in national elections.
In Copenhagen Tuesday, a group of lawmakers from the ruling Social  Democrats called its government to boycott the neo-fascist ministers. It said  ministers should "limit as far as possible their contacts with them.
"We can all make our contribution by telling Italian opinion that we are  very concerned by the development of democracy in Italy," they said in a  newsletter to voters.
"Hitler and Mussolini were also elected democratically," it added. "Just  because people were chosen in a democratic election, I don't have to keep my  mouth shut and stop protesting," one of the five, Dorte Bennedsen, told AFP.
Meanwhile in Brussels, the socialist group in the European parliament  called on centre-right colleagues to prevent Italian neo-fascists obtaining  power in Euro-elections to be held June 9-12.
The head of the group Jean-Pierre Cot said in a letter to the heads of the  Christian Democrat and Liberal groups proposing an accord to keep far right  wing deputies from achieving "positions of power."
"We are very worried about the silence of the centre-right in relation to  recent developments which have seen neo-fascists gaining power in Italy," he  said.
