Japan on Friday denounced the International Whaling  Commission's decision to establish a whale sanctuary in the Antarctic and  threatened to review its links with the organisation.
"We have options ranging widely from withdrawal from the IWC to  unconditional acceptance of the decision," a senior official of the state  fishery agency told Japanese reporters.
The Japanese government and fishery industry, which insisted that the  world's estimated 750,000 minke whales were exploitable, denounced as  "unscientific" the vote at the IWC meeting in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico.
Japan, for which whalemeat is a traditional delicacy, has proposed to hunt  up to 2,000 minke whales and said it would not threaten the species.
Mutsuki Kato, the minister of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, told a  press conference, "We will have to review in detail the impact on research  whaling and Japan's contributions to the IWC."
He added that Japan would study whether it would appeal the decision  within 90 days as prescribed by IWC rules.
"It can hardly be called a scientific judgement and is extremely  deplorable for Japan," said Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroshi Kumagai.
The top government spokesman added that it was important to solve the  issue by "balancing the exploitation and conservation of whales."
Despite a 1986 moratorium on commercial whaling, Japan, Norway and Iceland  have been hunting whales in the hundreds for "research purposes" to determine  the stock of cetaceans.
But such operations are denounced by ecologist groups, including  Greenpeace, as commercial whaling in disguise.
Clinton acknowledged that "serious human rights abuses continue" in China,  but said the policy of linking trade to human rights had reached "the end of  its usefulness."
China had maintained a consistently tough approach to US pressure over  human rights and reiterated its opposition to the policy Friday.
"What the US side did in the past few years on the MFN issue has impaired  bilateral trade and economic exchanges and the overall relations between the  two countries, to the strong dissatisfaction of the Chinese people," the  foreign ministry statement said.
Pledging China would continue to make efforts for the improvement and  development of ties, the statement urged the United States to "take a  realistic and forward-looking approach ... and take concrete action to show  its sincerity in enhancing relations between the two countries."
The ban on Chinese munitions affects goods worth, according to US  estimates, 200 million dollars a year. That represents less than one percent  of the 22-billion-dollar surplus that China ran in bilateral trade in 1993.
