Hundreds of thousands of people are fleeing central  Rwanda amid an upsurge in heavy fighting in the capital Kigali and elsewhere  in the country, an International Committee of the Red Cross spokesman said  Friday.
The ICRC appealed for UN peacekeepers to be sent in as quickly as possible  and humanitarian corridors to be established throughout the central African  state.
The spokesman said "hundreds of thousands" of displaced people were  milling around the Gitarama region, around 40 kilometres (25 miles) southwest  of Kigali, where the Hutu-dominated interim government is holed up.
Forces of the minority Tutsi-led rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) have  recently stepped up their offensive against government troops in the area.
"People are still moving," the ICRC spokesman said. However, he was unable  to say when exactly the new exodus had started.
The office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees here said it could not  comment on the ICRC report.
According to the ICRC, there had been an upsurge in combats in Kigali and  other regions of the country, sparking a fresh wave of killings.
In the capital Friday army and rebel gunners slammed shells into each  other's camps while mortar fire prevented UN planes from landing with  desperately needed food and medicine for the second consecutive day, UN  spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
The airport is Kigali's only lifeline but for the RPF it a military target  because of a big army camp alonside the runways.
Up to half a million Rwandans have been butchered in ethnic and political  killings between members of the majority Hutu and minority Tutsi. Fighting  erupted after the April 6 destruction of a plane carrying President Juvenal  Habyarimana, a Hutu, in a suspected missile attack.
Many of the victims were members of the minority Tutsi people that  dominates the rebel movement, and Hutu opponents of the late president, hacked  or bludgeoned to death by extremist Hutu militias only loosely controlled by  the government.
At least two million of the country's seven million population have been  made homeless and are threatened by epidemics, according to the World Health  Organisation.
UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali is sending a special envoy to  discuss the Security Council's decision to send 5,500 peacekeepers to Rwanda  with both sides and seek their "cooperation," Kabia said.
The envoy, Iqbal Riza of Pakistan, is expected in Kigali this weekend.
