The cabinet appointed Tuesday by new Malawian  President Bakili Muluzi surprised observers who had hoped he would appoint  members of opposition parties to key portfolios in an attempt to bridge the  tribal and regional divisions revealed by last week's elections.
Muluzi's United Democratic Front (UDF) swept the vote in the south, but  the Malawi Congress Party (MCP) of former president Hastings Kamuzu Banda took  the central region and the Alliance for Democracy (Aford) won all  parliamentary seats in the north.
The UDF took 84 of the 177 parliamentary seats, five short of a working  majority, and is negotiating a coalition with Aford, which won 36.
The MCP won 55 seats, but Muluzi has ruled out any power sharing with  Banda's party.
It was widely anticipated that the new president would offer some senior  cabinet posts to Aford. In particular, the home affairs portfolio was expected  to go to Aford leader Chakufwa Chihana.
Muluzi surprised analysts by offering the post to UDF lawyer Peter Fachi  and leaving only a few minor posts available for Aford.
"Aford will definitely feel marginalised in this cabinet and the remaining  portfolios are too small for Aford to take," said one political analyst.
"Muluzi could be courting trouble if he completely excludes Aford from the  government. Aford is an important player in Malawi's politics," he said.
Muluzi said at a news conference where he announced his cabinet that he  would "have no problems appointing anyone from Aford."
But he said he could not wait any longer for an outcome of the  negotiations between his party and Aford.
"We can't wait any longer. We have to start moving now," he said,  appointing 20 ministers, mostly members of his UDF.
He left vacant three minor portfolios -- forestry and natural resources,  community services and social welfare and physical planning and surveys.
Muluzi, who had criticised the regionalism apparent in the voting.  appointed 12 ministers from the south, three from the central region and five  from the north.
