Abu Kifah was born in Jordan  but grew up dreaming of a homeland in Palestine that he knew only from the  stories he heard from his parents and grandparents.
Now he still cannot believe that like hundreds of other Palestinian police   who crossed into Jericho he has finally reached the land of his dreams.
"It was a dream. Until now we were not fully awake," he said.
"I can't really believe I am here. I heard so much about Palestine from  the old people."
More than 400 men of the new Palestinian police force crossed over from  Jordan this week for the transfer of power from Israel which took place Friday.
Hundreds of Jericho residents rushed out to meet the policemen who had  tears in their eyes as they were bused in.
They were cheered all the way into town by youths shouting "Allah u  Akbar," (God is great), and were welcomed by music bands, marches, and  ululating women.
"To my parents and grandparents, it was the most beautiful place on earth,  a blessed land, with rich soil and and all kinds of trees," said Abu Kifah.
For years he kept the dream alive in the military camps where he was  trained to fight and pursue the Palestinian struggle.
Now Abu Kifah, or Father of Struggle in Arabic, is part of a joint patrol  driving with Israeli soldiers along Jericho's highways.
"I am working within a framework. I take orders from my superiors, but  they (the Israelis) are still my enemy," Abu Kifah said, nodding his head  toward a jeep with four Israeli soldiers parked under a tree near him.
There seemed to be little fraternization between the two, but they had  nevertheless shared soft drinks and sandwiches earlier as they rested between  patrols.
"We sent over drinks to them, and they offered us food, but we don't talk  much with them."
Ihab Salem, born in Egypt, had never thought he would have the chance to  see the land of his parents' dreams.
His most recent images of the occupied territories had been coloured by  the Palestinian Intifada, or uprising, which broke out in the occupied  territories in December 1987.
When he heard his friends' dramatic tales of the battles in the  territories or watched them on television, Salem longed to be a hero or even a  martyr.
"I would have liked to be killed or injured, but luck was not on my side,"  he said.
