A Singapore-style industrial township is taking  shape in China's Suzhou city, with the first factory targetted for completion   by April next year, Singapore and Chinese officials said here Friday.
Singapore Deputy Prime Minister Brigadier-General Lee Hsien Loong said the  70 square kilometer (28 square miles) integrated township was being developed  to attract investors from third countries.
"We are looking not for heavy industries but for light industries...We do  not have any investment commitments yet but interest is very high," Lee said.
He was speaking at a news conference after co-chairing the inaugural  meeting of a joint steering council with Chinese Vice-Premier Li Lanqing. The  council was set up to oversee dvelopment of the project.
Li told reporters that he visited the Suzhou Industrial Township project  before coming to Singapore and found bulldozers working 24 hours a day, in  rainy or fair weather.
A statement released at the end of the council meeting said the Jiangsu  provincial government had decided to transfer administrative authority of five  towns affected by the project to the Suzhou municipal government.
The transfer would maximise chances of success, the statement said.
The first batch of nine officials from Suzhou are in Singapore under a  software transfer programme to study local urban management practices.
A further 11 officials will arrive in July, and a third batch in the last  quarter of the year, the statement said.
"If Suzhou succeeds, it will be another outpost for Singapore in its  exercise in going offshore," Lee said, referring to the Singapore government's  regionalisation drive to create an external economy.
Li said applications to invest in the industrial park would be approved  within 10 days.
"We want to create a better environment for foreign investors, therefore  we are drawing upon the experience of Jurong Town Corporation," he said.
Jurong Town Corporation, a Singapore government agency charged with  developing industrial parks, is involved in the software transfer programme.
Lee said that Singapore offered to transfer its know-how based on 30 years  of experience in nation building to China, so "they do not have to repeat the  mistakes other people have made."
The Suzhou project is being developed by a consortium of 19 Singapore  companies, led by diversified Keppel Corp. and Suzhou United Development  Company, a consortium of 11 companies from Suzhou and Jiangsu.
The Singapore partner has a 65 percent stake in the project, with the  remaining interest held by the Chinese parties.
The joint steering committeee will hold its next annual meeting in Suzhou  in May to coincide with the completion of the first factory.
Li said in addition to urban management, he was also impressed by  Singapore's housing programme and education system and would like to study  them.
