Severiano Ballesteros has called for a decision on  the venue for the 1997 Ryder Cup to be postponed after claims which could  ammount to allegations of bribery.
The Spanish ace, expected to captain the Europe team when the bi-annual  classic goes to his country, is facing possible legal action by the Valderrama  club after claiming they offered him the equivalent of around one million  dollars to support their candidacy to host the tournament.
Now Ballesteros, who resigned from the Ryder Cup committee to avoid a  conflict of interest over his support for a rival bid from the Novo Sancti  Petri club in Cadiz, says: "The procedure regarding this whole thing has not  been correct and I really do believe that any final decision on this issue  should be postponed."
Writing in the London Evening Standard on Tuesday, Ballesteros claimed  that during his time on the Ryder Cup committee he had been "put in a corner  by some people and been ignored".
But he said now he had no choice but to speak out.
"I knew that once any decision on the venue was taken the matter would be  closed and I could say nothing," he said.
Ballesteros attempted to play down comments attributed to him after the  Spanish Open on Sunday over the possibility that offers similar to the one  allegedly made to him, of plots of land and green fee percentages, had been  made to other officials.
He said: "I did not suggest the name of anyone or of any group of people  who might have received offers too ... certainly not the members of the Ryder  Cup committee; certainly not Neil Coles and certainly not Bernard Gallacher.
"What I said was 'Who can guarantee to me that the offer had not been to  any others?'"
Ballesteros, who believes his Press release in Spanish could have been  misinterpreted, added: "I can say cateogorically I have never doubted the  honour and integrity of the people on that committee. After all, I used to be  on it until I resigned!"
Valderrama club spokesman James Stewart said on Tuesday that the only  offer made to Ballesteros had been for work he had done to redesign the 17th  hole at the course on the Sotogrande estate near Gibraltar.
Stewart added: "The matter is in the hands of our lawyers and we shall  take our lawyers' advice."
Ballesteros maintained his support for Novo Sancti Petri, which he  designed, over favourite Valderrama, a club he has described as the world's  most elitist.
He said: "My course is a links course. Valderrama is an American designed  course, which they say the players want to go to.
"Well in the past the players wanted to go to Royal Birkdale but the  committee chose The Belfry.
"Why is it so important to go where the players want to go this time?
"Frankly I cannot understand why the players want Valderrama because every  year during the Volvo Maters you must have noticed that they complain about  the course!"
European Tour executive director Ken Schofield said Monday that next  Wednesday's Ryder Cup decision would not be postponed.
