Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev meets with  his NATO counterparts here Tuesday with both sides seeking tricky trade-offs  in their quest for military and political rapprochement across the old iron  curtain.
Grachev is to meet defence ministers from North Atlantic Treaty  Organisation countries to present Moscow's terms for joining NATO's  partnership-for-peace programme of military cooperation with members of the  former Soviet bloc and other European nations.
The Russian general said at the weekend that "adhesion to the programme  must take into account the considerable role and place of Russia within the  European security system and the United Nations."
Quoted by ITAR-TASS news agency, he said Moscow wanted "more serious and  deeper relations with NATO than those foreseen in the partnership".
Russian President Boris Yeltsin needs acknowledgment by NATO of Russia's  big-power status to appease hardliners who maintain that Russia would be  lowering its guard against its old cold war enemies by joining the partnership.
But NATO feels it cannot go far in meeting the Russian demand without  upsetting the countries of eastern Europe, which are highly sensitive to any  suggestion that Russia should be given a privileged role in western  decision-making on Europe.
"We have to approach talks with Russia with great caution because of the  high sensitivity of the Poles and Hungarians amongst others," one NATO  diplomat said. "But we also want to keep supporting Yeltsin."
Sixteen countries of the former Soviet bloc, plus Finland and Sweden, have  so far joined the partnership, launched by NATO in January to keep the  military across the former east-west divide involved in friendly cooperation.
Russia has so far held back.
The Russian first vice-minister of foreign affairs, Anatoly Adamishin,  warned recently that failure to join could torpedo the good relations between  Moscow and the West in recent years
Representing the anti-partnership camp, the president of Russia's upper  house of parliament, Vladimir Shumeiko, said last week that NATO was trying to  exploit Russia's current weakness by extending western influence eastwards.
Yeltsin has indicated that, to defuse this criticism, he needs a protocol  in the partnership giving Russia a political influence proportionate to its  nuclear-power status, or at least a separate statement recognising this status.
NATO diplomats and officials agreed last week that Moscow should be  offered an "intensified dialogue" beyond partnership-for-peace, but with no  special status within it and no specific special or strategic relationship  outside it.
This meant, they said, that Russia would have no special influence or veto  rights over NATO decision-making, particularly concerning the former Soviet  satellites which are anxious to strengthen their security ties with the west.
The partnership gives any single member from the former Soviet bloc the  right for direct consultations with NATO if its "vital interests" are  threatened.
NATO diplomats, reacting to eastern European disquiet, have been at pains  to stress that if Poland, for example, called for such consultations, Russia  would not be involved.
The NATO diplomats have indicated that an "intensified dialogue" could  comprise such issues as nuclear non-proliferation and peacekeeping in the  former Soviet republics, the Bosnian conflict and the arms industry.
But no list has been defined and there is disagreement among NATO  countries whether to put anything on paper, even a vague declaration on  intensified dialogue with Russia. It is not clear whether any of this will  satisfy Yeltsin.
