Hanoi has had its first taste of live western rock  but it could be the last for a while after sultry French siren Patricia Kaas  whipped up the sort of youthful exuberance that horrifies Vietnam's  straitlaced authorities.
Kaas, known as France's answer to Madonna, stormed through her raw-voiced  repertoire of rock and blues at the Monday night concert, causing a near riot  among the Vietnamese crowd.
Authorities had already demanded that the concert organisers remove the  word "rock" from posters and adverts in a move indicative of their continuing  fear of some western influences.
But they were unprepared for the crowd's reaction to Kaas as hundreds  stormed over a barrier into a guest seating area, scattering Hanoi's French  expatriate community in their rush to get a closer look at the singer in her  tight dress.
With temperatures, both emotional and atmospheric, rising alarmingly in  the concert hall -- more normally used for trade fairs -- extra police were  drafted in to keep control of the 6,000 crowd.
The concert came to an abrupt halt with a power cut during the second  encore -- frequently the way Vietnamese wind down concerts when things look  like getting out of hand.
The singer was in the middle of a number called "Come into the Light" when  the stage was plunged into darkness.
So far this year, the Vietnamese capital has hosted the tamer music of US  country star John Denver but with tickets costing 30 US dollars each, few  young people attended.
Tickets for Kaas' concert, part of her "Tour de Charme" that will take her  to Ho Chi Minh City and then Cambodia, cost only 20,000 dong (two dollars),  bringing them within reach of young people hungry for more contact with the  west.
But officials are growing increasingly concerned with the behaviour of  Vietnam's young people, who make up more than half the population and are  hungering for even greater freedoms as the country opens its doors.
With music, motorbikes and clothes rising as priorities in the minds of  many, Vietnam's official press has been expressing increasing concern and  giving prominence to such things as jail terms handed down for those caught  during the illegal motorbike races that have become a regular late-night  occurrence in Hanoi.
