The Yemen government has called a three-day  ceasefire in the civil war with southern forces, the SABA news agency said  here Friday, after apparently suffering its bloodiest military defeat yet in  15 days of clashes.
The ceasefire, coming amid mounting pressure from the Arab community for a  halt to the fighting, will be effective from Saturday 00:00 a.m. (Friday 2100  GMT), the northern-controlled agency said.
Announcing the truce to mark the Moslem feast of Al-Adha, northern leaders  warned that a lasting ceasefire was dependent on southern leaders giving  themselves up, acknowledging the authority of President Ali Abdallah Saleh,  and placing their troops under a unified Sanaa-based command, the agency said.
But in Mukallah, 700 kilometers (450 miles) east of Aden, the southern  leader Vice-President Ali Salem al-Baid ruled out any form of surrender and  vowed "not to give up a single inch of our territory in the south".
In Aden, where the Yemen Socialist Party (YSP) was reportedly poised  Friday to create a secessionist state, a spokesman for the southern forces  said 1,500 northern troops had been killed during the day in bloody clashes in  the Kharaz region west of the city.
The soldiers died trying to advance on the city, which is the southerners'  power base, the spokesman said.
He added that the attacks had been repulsed and that the northerners'  heavy losses included "1,500 (men) killed and 27 tanks destroyed".
The death toll, which was not confirmed by the government, was the largest  daily loss announced since the fighting broke out on May 5.
Earlier in the day northern forces claimed to have made further progress  in advancing on Aden, a military spokesman in Sanaa adding that "the rest of  the secessionist forces (defending Aden) are on their way to crumbling."
But the southern spokesman said southern ground forces, backed by air and  naval power, had halted the attempted advance. He gave no details of any  southern losses.
"Northern units that tried to break through southern defensive lines at  Kharaz were completely annihilated, and several troops surrendered," the  spokesman said.
