The Prince of Wales warned international business  leaders Friday that the peoples of eastern Europe have not voted  unconditionally for capitalism, saying they expected big business to give a  greater priority to its social obligations.
The transition to democratic market economies cannot not be completed  quickly or easily, the prince said. "It can involve upheavals as well as new  freedoms and economic opportunities," he told an Anglo-German businessmen's  seminar in Berlin.
"We all share an interest in the success and long term stability of  eastern and central Europe," Prince Charles, 45, told his top-ranking  corporate listeners.
The "round table" was jointly organised by the Prince of Wales Business  Leaders Forum of which he is president and Germany's East-West Economic  Academy. Both were set up after the 1989 fall of the Berlin Wall paved the way  for capitalist restoration in countries of the former Soviet bloc.
Accompanied by Berlin mayor Eberhard Diepgen, the heir to the British  throne strolled in the sun after the seminar through the Brandenburg Gate,  which has come to symbolise Germanys dramatic past and hopes for the reunited  country's future, chatting and waving to hundreds of well-wishers.
For some 40 years of Cold War, this city gate marked the political  division of Berlin, Germany, Europe and the world. In olden times only royalty  was allowed to pass through its central arch, although today buses and taxis  as well as visiting princes may do so.
Later Friday, Prince Charles took the salute at the Queens Birthday Parade  at the Maifeld (May Field) on the west side of the city, where troops of the  remaining British forces in Berlin were staging their last military parade  before a final withdrawal in September.
In a speech in the Rote Rathaus (Berlin city hall), the prince said the  military ceremony would mark the end of a chapter in which Britain and the  extraordinary history of Berlin have been intertwined.
"In common with a large number of people in my country, I am proud that,  for a generation and more, throughout the (Soviet) blockade, the various  crises of the Cold War, the building of the terrible Berlin Wall, we have  played our part, with the Allies, in helping preserve the freedom of your  remarkable city," he told Berlins mayor and assembled guests.
The prince praised a "splendid plan" to convert the British Officers Club  into the "International Club Berlin".
He also said that to commemorate the 1949 Berlin Airlift, in which the  British played a central role in helping keep Soviet-led forces from  strangling West Berlin, a privately-run British school was to be established.
In his earlier speech to businessmen, Prince Charles said the political  and economic changes in eastern Europe presented challenges as well as  opportunities. With its own experience and as these countries nearest  neighbour, Germany probably felt this more than any other European nation.
He warned of the danger of falsely-raised expectations of what the free  market could bring these countries, saying attitude surveys showed their  general public had "not given a blanket endorsement to capitalism".
From visits he had made, he was aware of "the dangers to both the social  order and the human spirit".
But with international support for his forum, the prince felt he was  promoting action to demonstrate that "good corporate citizenship" could  contribute to "sustainable development" in the former East bloc.
Prince Charles, who also visited the Pergamon Museum and took tea with  German civilians who served the British forces to thank them, was rounding off  his one-day trip to Berlin with a reception at the British forces headquarters.
