Israel on Monday demanded a written commitment  to the Palestinian self-rule deal from PLO leader Yasser Arafat after his  claim that the accord could be broken.
It threatened to break off negotiations to broaden Palestinian autonomy if  he failed to do so.
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin wanted Arafat's pledge that "the PLO will  adhere to the agreement signed in Cairo" along with the September 13  Declaration of Principles and the mutual recognition accord.
The chief Israeli negotiator of the May 4 Cairo accord, General Amnon  Shahak, passed on the demand to his Palestinian counterpart, Nabil Shaath, on  Sunday, Rabin's spokeswoman Lynda Shimon said.
Israel radio earlier the same day broadcast extracts from a speech made by  Arafat in South Africa in which he said the autonomy agreement was purely a  tactical move and could be broken.
A senior cabinet official who requested anonymity told AFP: "The man has  lost his head and we had no other choice than to ask him for such a letter."
Environment Minister Yossi Sarid warned that Israel "will not continue the  autonomy negotiations unless Arafat retracts his comments."
Sarid said the remarks had created a "serious crisis of confidence"  between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. Israel was demanding  that Arafat "totally denies these statements," Sarid said.
The two sides are set to hold talks on the transfer of more powers to  Palestinians in the rest of the West Bank.
Arafat "must repeat he wants to respect his commitments and show he is  opposed to terrorism. It's a condition for the continuation of the peace  process," Sarid said.
"If he does not retract his remarks he can decide between becoming mayor  of Jericho or head of the Gaza district," he added.
The Declaration of Principles signed in Washington stipulates that Israeli  forces withdraw from populated Palestinian areas in the West Bank before  elections for the autonomous council, now due in October.
Uri Orr, chairman of parliament's foreign affairs and defense committee,  said if "Israel is not convinced the Palestinian leadership with Yasser Arafat  as head is doing everything possible to make the accord succeed, there will be  no accord.
"I want the entire PLO leadership to tell the world's television cameras:  'This accord is a test for us. We must put down our weapons and fight those  who do not,'" he told Israeli radio.
Arafat spoke in English, but used the Arabic name for the pact, "solh  al-hodaibiya," which has entered Islamic history as a tactical ceasefire.
"It's an Islamic legal precedent regarding any agreement between the  Islamic world and infidels. An agreement can be made with the enemy and then  broken as soon as possible," he said.
The radio triggered a furore last week when it broadcast another extract  of the May 10 Johannesburg speech in which Arafat called for a "jihad" to  recapture Jerusalem.
Arafat had to hastily explain that despite the connotations of "jihad," he  had not meant a holy war by jihad.
An unconvinced Rabin described the explanation as "evasive," and warned  after gunmen in Gaza killed two soldiers on Friday that any further attacks  would stall the autonomy process.
Meanwhile, chief of staff General Ehud Barak told the cabinet that "the  Palestinian police was incapable of applying the accord."
But one minister said the Palestinian police needed time to gain control  over areas which Israel itself had been unable to master during 27 years of  occupation, a participant said.
Jibril Rajub, the head of Palestinian security in the West Bank, told AFP  that the PLO could only prevent attacks on Israelis if their leaders "gave us  complete and total authority."
