The main opposition presidential candidate  threatened Friday to shut down the government if his President Joaquin  Balaguer is named the winner of what some international observers called a  tainted vote.
Jose Francisco Pena Gomez said that if Balaguer was proclaimed the winner  without clearing up reports of fraud, senators, deputies and other officials  from the Dominican Revolutionary Party (PRD) would refuse to be sworn in.
That would make the Dominican Republic ungovernable if Balaguer is sworn  in on August 16 as the winner of a May 16 election since the PRD could attain  a majority in the legislature.
In the presidential vote, the 87-year-old Balaguer, who is seeking a  seventh term, leads Pena Gomez by one percent or about 30,000 votes with  ballots from all but eight voting stations counted.
But Pena Gomez, 57, has alleged that two of the five members of the  Central Electoral Board removed the names of 200,000 of his supporters from  registers to prevent him from becoming the first black president this century.
Other people were registered twice, he has alleged. International  observers confirmed that Dominicans with apparently valid voters cards were  turned away from polling stations.
"We will not do business with Joaquin Balaguer," said Pena Gomez. "He is a  usurper who has stolen the will of the people."
"No winner has been declared or can be declared, but if they try to do it,  they must know that an illegitimate government is coming and that it will be  fought in all its forms."
At the same time, pressure was growing in the country for a solution to  the standoff through some sort of agreement between Balaguer and his opponents.
To avoid controversy on two fronts at once, Balaguer on Wednesday ordered  a complete closure of the country's leaky border with Haiti to enforce an  international embargo to drive Haiti's military leaders from power. Balaguer  had opposed the sanctions.
Faced both with opposition charges of fraud and international observers'  confirmations of irregularities, the electoral board announced a recount on  Saturday.
To soothe other ruffled feathers, Deputy Foreign Minister Fabio Herrera  backed down Friday from accusations made by Foreign Minister Aristide Taveras  that foreign reporters in the Dominican Republic to cover the election were  part of an "international conspiracy."
"There has been no meddling," said Herrera, who is considered close to  Balaguer. "Reporters have a right to inform."
The official also slapped down ruling party official Angel Lockward, who  last week scored diplomats who met with Pena Gomez as "shameless."
"The word 'shameless' should not have been used," he said.
