Bankers trying to recover 220 million dollars worth  of debts from maverick politician and self-made millionaire Bernard Tapie have  laid hands on 100 million francs (17.8 million dollars), the state-owned bank  Credit Lyonnais said on Monday.
The cash, held in the politician's Groupe Bernard Tapie bank account in  Paris, was frozen by court order last Friday.
Credit Lyonnais, which itself is debt-ridden, pulled the rug from under  Tapie last May 17 after financing his rise to fame and fortune for the past 15  years.
The bank is demanding payment by next Thursday of a first tranche of 450  million francs (77.6 million dollars) that is immediately due out of the 220  million total.
The 17.8 million frozen Friday represents the cash remainder of the sale  by Tapie of the sportswear manufacturer Adidas.
On May 20, Credit Lyonnais called in bailiffs and experts to value antique  furniture and works of art at his expensive left-bank mansion to prevent them  being disposed of. The furniture is worth an estimated 350 million francs  (60.3 million dollars).
On Sunday Tapie said he would bring a court suit against the bank for  breaking its agreement with him for the rescheduling of the debt over a  five-year period.
Lawyers for Tapie also said he would be seeking damages over the distress  caused to him, his family and his firms for the "considerable prejudice" they  said the bank had shown in initiating procedures against him and releasing  them to the media.
In his stronghold of Marseille, southern France, on Monday, Tapie was  meanwhile questioned by examining magistrate Pierre Philippon. Tapie faces  embezzlement charges over the accounts of his football club, former first  division champions Olympique-Marseille.
Tapie also faces two new demands to strip him of his parliamentary  immunity to facilitate investigations against him.
Credit Lyonnais says 51-year-old Tapie's assets have reduced in value  since the rescheduling, following a customs prosecution concerning his luxury  yacht the Phocea, and the relegation to the second division of  Olympique-Marseille.
Tapie, a former urban affairs minister in the socialist government, also  faces embezzlement charges in the case of one of his companies, the weighing  machine firm Testut.
He has further been charged with complicity in corruption and suborning  witnesses in a match-fixing case involving Marseille and the northern team  Valenciennes.
Undeterred, Tapie is going ahead with a campaign to become a deputy at  elections to the European Parliament on June and heads a list for a small  centre-left party.
The court cases have not affected his popularity and Tapie has his eyes on  the Marseille mayoralty in municipal elections scheduled for 1995.
