The US government denied Wednesday that it had  already basically decided to renew China's privileged trading status and was  now trying to prepare the public for the decision.
"It would be inaccurate to say that essentially the administration has  decided the question and now it's just a matter of ... rolling out that  decision," State Department spokesman Michael McCurry told reporters.
White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said meanwhile that President Bill  Clinton would probably make his decision before the June 3 deadline.
"The deadline is June 3. I expect we'll have a decision before that, but  we don't have a hard date at this point," Myers told reporters.
"The president will have an announcement -- a final decision and  announcement soon, within the next two weeks," Myers said. There are 16 days  to go to the deadline.
But she stressed that "there's no way to take back the executive order the  president signed last year," Myers said.
Clinton said last year that he would not renew China's MFN beyond June 3  this year unless China made significant overall progress on human rights.
A senior US official said Wednesday that as part of final efforts to  persuade China to take the necessary steps in the next three weeks, Clinton  had sent a secret envoy to Beijing to tell Chinese officials exactly what they  would need to do to ensure renewal.
Washington has despatched a series of messengers to put its case to  Beijing since the beginning of the year, but as far as a recent mission by a  secret envoy was concerned McCurry would say only that "there have been many  aspects of quiet diplomacy that we have been pursuing."
Asked what China needed to do in the next 16 days to meet the MFN  conditions, McCurry said:
"We would welcome any progress that China would contribute, even at a late  date like this."
"There have been some positive developments .... and there have been,  frankly, some setbacks or some negative developments as well," McCurry said.
Recent progress included China's agreement to allow a US technical team to  visit Beijing this week to discuss US allegations that Voice of America radio  broadcasts are being jammed, McCurry said.
