An Arab League delegation visiting Yemen to mediate  between the warring north and south was finally received by President Ali  Abdallah Saleh's office, radio Sanaa announced late Saturday in a report  monitored by the BBC.
The delegation had been waiting since Thursday to deliver a call by the  League's General Secretary Esmat Abdel Meguid for an immediate ceasefire and  return to talks to "safeguard unity" of the country, the radio said.
But although southern organisations in Aden have called on the Arab League  to step in to end the fighting, so far northern leaders have rejected any  foreign intervention in the 10-day-old civil war which they consider an  "internal matter."
The conservative North and formerly communist South Yemen states united in  May 1990 after long and delicate negotiations.
The League was received by Abdel Aziz Abdel Ghani, member of the  collective presidency, who said northern leaders would back a ceasefire if  "war criminal" Ali Salem al-Baid surrendered in the south and if the  constitutional legitimacy of Saleh's government was recognised.
Baid, the Yemenite vice president, was stripped of his functions in the  first days of the fighting.
It was not yet known if the Arab League delegation would continue to the  southern economic capital Aden. Earlier, the League had said at its Cairo  headquarters that a visit would depend on the results of its Sanaa talks.
Last week an emergency meeting of the League turned down an Egyptian  proposal to send an Arab peacekeeping force to Yemen and it has ruled out any  early Arab summit to discuss the crisis.
In Aden, Baid's Yemen Socialist Party repeated calls for a ceasefire  Saturday, "out of a profound desire to avoid a destructive war" which it said  could threaten the country's new-found unity.
The war could not be confined to a small part of Yemen, and "its flames  will spread to include all towns, shores, mountains and valleys of the  homeland without exception," the party said in a statement broadcast on Aden  radio.
The fighting went on because the "bloodthirsty gang" in Sanaa "continues to  ignore all those appeals and initiatives and boasts about its determination to  march over a river of blood and over the skulls of its victims," continued the  statement, monitored by the BBC.
In the Saudi capital Riyadh Saturday, the dismissed southern oil minister  Saleh Abou Bakr Ben Husseinoun came to stressing the south's desire to return  to peace talks and maintain a reconciliation accord signed between the two  sides in February in Amman.
Northern leaders have already rejected a five-point appeal from the south,  issued Friday, which called for an immediate ceasefire and establishment of a  government of national salvation.
Thousands of people demonstrated in Aden Saturday calling for an immediate  end to the fighting, an AFP correspondent reported. Many brandished photos of  Baid and shouted anti-Saleh slogans.
Local and foreign journalists taken to the strategic town of Daleh, which  lies 90 kilometres (55 miles) from Aden, confirmed that it was held by  northern troops.
Southern forces defending the strategic heights around Daleh had been  pushed back about 10 kilometres (six miles) by attacking northern forces  Saturday and taken up positions at the mountain town of Markula, an AFP  correspondent said.
Radio Sanaa has also claimed that its forces were advancing towards the  main southern airbase of Al Anad and Al Dali and had taken Al Musaymir, only  30 kilometres (18 miles) from the Al Anad air base.
But Radio Aden, monitored by the BBC Saturday evening, denied the reports,  quoting the southern defence minister as denouncing the "misinformation" and  saying the reports were "without foundation."
Journalists said tank and artillery reinforcements had been deployed in  the Al Musaymir area to bolster the north's forces. Hundreds of civilians have  meanwhile fled the fighting for the safety of Aden.
A human rights group based in Sanaa accused southern forces of enlisting  youths to fight against the north, according to a report carried by the  official northern agency SABA.
The group said 147 youths aged 11 to 16 were "trained at the Basahib camp  and joined the war," violating international rules protecting children and a  Yemenite law on military service, which fixes 18 as the minimum age.
