Four men armed with submachineguns and a grenade  held half a busload of passengers hostage in southern Russia Thursday and  demanded 10 million dollars in ransom and a getaway helicopter, officials said.
The hostage-takers released seven out of eight schoolchildren they were  holding and let 15 men go, to add to eight men they had freed shortly after  seizing control of the bus.
One child and 19 adults, mostly women, were still being held, Stavropol  police chief General Ivan Tetereviatnikov told AFP. Earlier, the police had  said that about 30 people were being held aboard the bus.
Interfax reported that the gunmen were threatening to kill one of the  passengers within the hour if their demands were not met but Tetereviatnikov  denied that any ultimatum had been issued.
The gunmen hijacked the bus near the town of Mineralnoye Vody in the  afternoon as it travelled from the North Ossetian city of Vladikavkaz en route  to the southern Russian city of Stavropol.
About 800 policemen and security officers were dispatched to the site of  the hostage-taking and began negotiations with the gunmen, he said.
The hostage-takers, whose nationality was not known, demanded a  helicopter, but no crew, four additional submachine guns, four flak jackets, a  grenade-launcher, a night-sight scopes and drugs, a spokesman for the  emergencies ministry said.
The police provided them with phials of morphine, Tetereviatnikov said.  The hostage-takers had not said where they wanted to go.
The hostage-taking was the fourth to occur in the region in the past five  years, he added.
Russia's northern Caucasus region, an economically poor area, has recently  witnessed a flareup in ethnic tension. Firearms and military weapons are  readily available in the area.
The police chief said that a negotiating team directed by Russian Interior  Minister Viktor Erin and Askarbek Galazov, president of the Russian republic  of North Ossetia, told the gunmen they would not be harmed if they released  the hostages.
Tetereviatnikov said the two sides were communicating by notes and that the  bus had been immobilised near the airport at Mineralnoye Vody.
A man and a woman carried the written messages to authorities, a duty  officer at the airport was quoted by ITAR-TASS as saying, adding that "the  terrorists were sure that they would return because their kids remained in the  bus."
The last hostage drama in Russia occurred in December, when 15  schoolchildren were abducted in the southern Russian city of  Rostov-on-the-Don.
The four captors obtained a helicopter and led authorities on a four-day  airborne pursuit through the Caucasus before releasing their hostages one by  one in return for 10 million dollars in ransom, most of which was recovered.
In March 1992, three men hijacked a bus carrying twenty workers and two  militia members. They demanded a plane to take them to Turkey but were refused  admission by Ankara and were arrested in the breakaway Russian republic of  Chechnya.
Tetereviatnikov said their was no known link between the previous  hostage-taking in Rostov and the latest incident.
