The world market for environmentally friendly  technology, presently at 200 billion dollars and growing, is attracting an  increasing number of US businesses targeting Asian nations.
This sector is clearly strengthened since the first international  environmental summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. The industry benefits from the  Clinton administration, which has staked a strong interest in cleaning up the  environment as well as spurring the development of "green technologies" to  increase US exports.
The administration has encouraged the latter by subsidizing exports  through agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The  industry profits as well from World Bank interest in environmental protection.
This golden opportunity, which could reach 600 billion dollars in the year  2000, is equally coveted by the French companies Lyonnaise des Eaux-Dumez and  Generale des Eaux, and the German firm Siemans.
In the United States, the firms range in size from giants like WMX  Technologies (formerly Waste Management), with 10 billion dollars in business  for 1993, and Bechtel, with 7.3 billion dollars, to the average-sized like  Solarex, at 30-35 million dollars, or smaller ones such as Spire or United  Solar.
Exports are critical for waste treatment technologies and for those  centered on pollution prevention. Solarex exports around 65 percent of its  solar panel production, mainly to western Europe and Asia.
The Asian market, currently estimated at 80 billion dollars, could reach  120 billion before the turn of the century.
To profit from this windfall, the United States in 1992 launched the Asian  Environmental Partnership (AEP) a cooperative effort with Asian countries  which has already rendered 400 million dollars in clean technology sales.
"We are committed to achieve five to 10 billion dollars into the next five  years" in this framework, said an AEP source speaking on condition of  anonymity.
"Asia is attractive because economies are strong, it offers political  stability and there is interest in environmental issues. And you know that  they will pay," said William Brown of WMX, the world's leading waste treatment  corporation.
The principal export targets are Taiwan, which could release 30.5 billion  dollars for the environment over six years; South Korea with 11.4 billion  dollars over five years, and Hong Kong with six or seven billion dollars  before the year 2000.
However, all covet the fabulous Chinese market, which could reach 35  billion dollars before 2000. In comparison, Mexico and Brazil, the main Latin  American markets, spend two and one billion dollars respectively.
Malaysia and Indonesia also hold future potential, in spite of their  apparent reticence to adopt stronger environmental regulations and open their  market wider to foreign technologies.
In these nations, "There is a very strong push for environmental domestic  policies," said the AEP source adding, "so, they send mixed signals abroad."
Environmental issues arose during May 6 talks in Washington between  Clinton and Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohammed, but nothing has leaked  out of these discussions.
