Erich Honecker, who ruled former East Germany for  18 years before falling from power amid the collapse of communism, was  cremated Tuesday, cemetery officials said.
His ashes were to be turned over to his widow Margot and daughter Sonja  later in the day, said Eleazar Robles, director of the General Cemetery, where  the cremation took place.
Honecker's wish was to be buried next to his parents in Neunkirchen,  Sarre, but the family has announced no decision on when they will return with  his ashes.
Robles said the cremation began at 9:30 a.m. (1330 GMT) and lasted 90  minutes. Honecker's body was taken from its casket and rolled on a cart into  the incinerator, which has glass windows for viewing, he said.
Honeckers relatives did not witness the cremation, Robles added.
The former East Geman leader died here at his home in exile Sunday after a  long battle with liver cancer. He was 81.
Honecker came to Santiago in January 1993 after being freed for  humanitarian reasons by a Berlin court that was trying him for the deaths of  Germans killed trying to escape to the West.
Instrumental in winning him refuge in Chile were local communist and  socialist leaders who were grateful to Honecker for giving refugee to Chilean  leftists who fled the repressive regime of General Augusto Pinochet.
Hundreds of former refugees turned out Monday to pay their last respects  to Honecker at a simple memorial held at the cemetery.
Mourners sang the "Internationale," the anthem of the international  communist movement, and the flag of the former German Democratic Republic was  draped over Honecker's coffin which bore a metal crucifix.
Margot Honecker wept softly at the end of the ceremony as a Chilean played  a charango and sang a song by Chilean folksinger Violeta Parra: "Thanks to  life, that has given me so much."
Honecker, who directed the building of the Berlin Wall in 1961, governed  East Germany from 1971 to 1989, resigning shortly before the collapse of the  wall.
He fled to Moscow in March 1991, and the following year took refuge in the  Chilean embassy after the Russian government withdrew its support and moved to  repatriate him.
Despite the Chilean efforts to win political asylum for him, Honecker was  deported and put on trial in Berlin until the court decided he was too sick to  continue.
Arriving in Chile on January 14, 1993, Honecker joined his wife and  daughter, who is married to a Chilean.
