An old friend of President Bill Clinton,  Supreme Court designate Stephen Breyer is a moderate consensus-builder who  most likely lost a nomination last year because he had a "nanny problem."
The 55-year-old Breyer, nominated Friday to court, should be easily  confirmed to replace retiring Justice Harry Blackmun and become the 108th  justice named to the nation's highest court.
Breyer had been a favorite to replace justice Byron White in 1993 but was  believed to have lost the nomination on revelations that he had failed to pay  social security taxes for a household employee for more than a decade. Ruth  Bader Ginsburg was named in his stead.
Breyer, a New Englander, studied law at Harvard University and became a  clerk for then-Supreme Court Justice Arthur Goldberg. In the 1970s, he taught  antitrust and administrative law at Harvard Law School.
In 1973, he helped prosecute some Watergate cases. Six years later, he  went to work as an aide to Senator Edward Kennedy, a Democratic from  Massachusetts and a stalwart on the Judiciary Committee.
Building a reputation as a hardworking intellectual with an ability to  build consensus, Breyer was next named to a federal commission to set  sentencing guidelines. The panel's decision to toughen some sentences has  angered factions in the judicial community who feel that the guidelines do not  give judges enough leeway.
Breyer was named to the 1st Circuit Court in December 1980 and became  chief judge 10 years later. As a sign of his political savvy, he was nominated  by then-President Jimmy Carter in 1980 and confirmed after Carter's defeat.
Breyer has been reversed by the Supreme Court twice.
In 1982, he ruled that Hustler magazine could not be sued for libel in New  Hampshire because it had few connections to the state. The high court  disagreed, saying that the raunchy magazine was widely available there.
In 1983, he ruled that the Treasury Department could not write a  regulation restricting US citizens' travel to Cuba because the law used in  drafting the regulation did not apply. The Supreme Court overturned Breyer's  decision.
