Top South Korean officials voiced a note of optimism  Friday that North Korea's solo start to the refuelling of a nuclear reactor  would not push Pyongyang and Washington to the brink.
Foreign Minister Han Sung-Joo, now in Hanoi, was quoted by Korean  journalists travelling with him as saying that despite the start, chances of  Washington and Pyongyang sitting down together for talks were still "high."
The talks would have been scuttled if the International Atomic Energy  Agency (IAEA) had found that refuelling had gone beyond the critical stage and  checking for diversion of spent fuel into nuclear weapons was no longer  possible, US officials have said.
In Seoul, which is in close constant touch with Washington and where a  military hotline with the US defence department was activated Friday,   unification ministry spokesman Kim Hyung-Ki said "We expect North Korea will  respond to the IAEA proposal (to stop refuelling) soon."
The foreign ministry and the cabinet both expressed concern, regret and  readiness to back sanctions in a worst case scenario.
But they said they were awaiting Pyongyang's reply to an IAEA request that  it halt the refuelling immediately before making any further comment.
The most upbeat was Han's comment on the "high" likelihood of the  Washington-Pyongyang meeting should North Korea agree with the IAEA on random  selection and segregation of the rods from the five-megawatt experimental  reactor for "future measurement."
A reporter from Yonhap news agency travelling with Han quoted "another  well-informed source" as saying the IAEA had "made a judgement call that saved  the two Koreas and the United States from going to the brink."
"The IAEA, instead of immediately charging North Korea with starting the  rod removal, has decided to go for substance," the Yonhap reporter said,  adding that the Washington-Pyongyang talks could start in June.
"The IAEA said North Korea's unloading process (at the reactor at the  Yongbyon nuclear complex 90 kilometers (56 miles) north of Pyongyang), was  still in an early stage, and the scope of the inspections the agency wants can  still be achieved," the reporter said.
The IAEA Friday called the start of refuelling a "serious violation" of  IAEA inspection terms, and said it would report the move, which had already  been announced by Pyongyang, to the UN Security Council.
But in a telegram to North Korea, the agency's Vienna headquarters said  that "as of today, it still seems possible to implement the required safety  measures," indicating that a crisis could be avoided.
The agency said its inspectors, in North Korea since Tuesday, had  confirmed the North had started changing the rector's estimated 8,000 fuel  rods, a process that experts say could take up to two months to complete.
North Korea on Saturday said publicly it had no option but to begin the  fuel rod change before the IAEA team's arrival, but said the agency need have  no fear of diversion as the process was being monitored by IAEA cameras.
It said then it was "prepared to store all the spent fuel under the strict  surveillance of the IAEA and fully allow the IAEA to measure it."
Should that not be possible, Clinton administration officials -- who  believe that the spent fuel could be enough to build four or five nuclear  bombs -- have said, the US would call for economic sanctions on the isolated  Stalinist state.
Pyongyang denies any nuclear ambitions and has said it would consider  sanctions as a declaration of war.
