Army troops and police patrolled the capital  Friday as political leaders demanded a recount in a vote that President  Joaquin Balaguer is leading for an unprecendented seventh term.
With the vote count from Monday's election suspended since late Thursday,  opposition leader Jose Francisco Pena Gomez has been demanding a new election  or at least another round of balloting where the most serious anomalies were  reported.
Elite army and police troops were posted around Santo Domingo and highways  leading into the capital. They are reportedly seizing weapons being brought  into the city.
Despite the tension here, no serious incidents have been reported in this  nation of seven million which shares the island of Hispanola with Haiti.
The Civility Pact Commission, named for a pre-election agreement signed by  the major political parties, has called for a recount. Balaguer was ahead by  1.01 percent when the vote count was stopped with 97.6 percent of the ballots  counted.
Pena Gomez's party is alleging that there are different vote counts being  disseminated by the electoral board.
The daily Hoy reported that reports given to the public give Balaguer  1,236,107 votes, while computer diskettes also from the electoral board only  give him 899,860. Balaguer is leading by 29,590 votes of a total of 2.9  million cast.
Pena Gomez has also estimated that the names of 200,000 of his supporters  were dropped from voters lists distributed on the Central Electoral Board.
In the town of Comendador near the Haitian border, the names of up to 50  percent of prospective voters at one table did not appear on final voter lists  even though they had valid voter registration cards, said observer Maureen  Taft-Morales with the National Democratic Institute.
All of those turned away said they had planned to vote for Pena Gomez, she  said in a telephone interview in Washington Friday.
"There is a possibility that this is human error or a computer problem but  the fact that virtually everyone turned away was for the opposition makes that  unlikely," she said.
