Greece will privatise a quarter of the national  telecommunications concern by the end of the year, placing shares in Japan and  the United States as well as in Europe, Economy Minister Yannos Papantoniou  said on Monday.
The announcement, which was seen a significant in the context of heavy  pressure against the drachma, replaces a previous plan to privatise 49 percent  of the company.
The foreign operation would be lead-managed by Schroder Wagg and Credit  Suisse First Boston, he said. The national bank would be the lead manager  within Greece.
The company, known as the OTE Greek telecommunications body, is the  biggest state-owned operation here.
The minister did not give the value of the partial privatisation. But  unofficial estimates put it at one billion dollars of which 40 percent is  expected to be used to meet the public deficit which in turn is estimated to  represent 18 percent of gross national product.
The announcement was made against a background of strong pressure against  the drachma which has casued the Greek central bank to intervene heavily  during the last 10 days.
A week ago the government advanced by six weeks its plans to liberalise  capital flows in what was seen as an emergency step to engender confidence in  management of the economy.
International dealers and experts hold that the currency is over valued to  the extent of 10-15 percent. The government has tried to strangle speculation  against the drachma by increasing the interbank overnight rate to 500 percent.
Experts said that about 15 percent of the privatisation issue would be  made available on internataional markets. The amount of investment money  available within Greece is believed to be too small to absorb the entire  issue, which will be the biggest ever made on the stock market here.
The minister did not give the date of the issue, but October or Novemebr  are believed to be the most likely months. Experts said that there was a gap  during these two months in the issues already planned by international  telecommunications companies.
The minister said that a bill would soon be published cancelling a previous  proposal, which had been adopted in August 1993 under the previous  conservative government, for the sale of 49 percent of the company and the  allocation of management respsonsibility to "a strategic investor" which would  have held 35 percent of the company.
The decision raised contradictory reactions about the effect on the  drachma.
Government spokesman Evangelos Venizelos said: "The drachma situation is  developing in a satisfactory way and speculators have understood that the  government is applying its monetary and financial policy firmly and  responsibly."
A director of the French Paribas bank in Greece, Daniel Delevac, said:  "This operation is very positive and should pull the rug from under the feet  of the speculators by proving that the government's policy is going in the  right direction."
But other dealers were sceptical. "It is too soon to make a judgement but  it would be surprising if the pressure ceased as if by a miracle," chief  foreign exchange dealer at Citibank in Greece Yorgos Kondoyannis said.
Pressure against the currency was relaxed here on Monday because most  European markets were closed for the observance of Pentecost.
The drachma firmed to 149 to the mark from a record low point of 153.35 at  the close in London on Friday.
The overnight interbank rate, guided by state-controlled banks, remained  at 125-500 percent.
The stock market index here fell by 2.8 points on Monday despite the news  of the privatisation.
