Leaders of the western anti-abortion movement  joined Russian religious officials and activists Wednesday at the first  conference of a new pro-life coalition that has vowed to bring down the  country's staggering abortion rate.
About 400 people attended the opening of the three-day conference during  which Russian anti-abortion activists were to draw from the experience of  their western counterparts to map out a strategy to promote their views and  recruit new members.
"There can be no revival of Russia and no renewal of its society without  a new consciousness and respect for human life. We must stop this horrible  evil," said the president of the Russian "Right to Live" organisation, Galina  Seryakova.
Russia is fertile ground for the international pro-life movement as it  boasts one of the world's highest abortion rates.
Russian women on average have between two and four abortions during their  child-bearing years and the procedure is widely used here as a method of  contraception.
Other means of contraception are expensive and were, until recently,  scarcely available.
Seryakova said the Russian pro-life movement would not lobby for changes  to the current legislation which allows abortion on demand, a right won by  women under the former Soviet regime.
But anti-abortion activists plan to discuss with health ministry  officials the possibility of holding "psychological consultations" with women  in hospitals and clinics where abortions are performed.
"We want to be able to tell women what will happen to them and to their  unborn child," said vice-president Tatiana Makienko.
They also maintain that the health ministry should finance an information  campaign on adoption and "natural means of contraception" as opposed to  "buying birth control pills and IUD's from the West."
Entitled "Love, Life and Family", the conference sponsored by a  European-based pro-life organisation called "Human Rights International"  featured American, Polish, French and German speakers.
German doctor Zigfried Erist, vice-president of the World Federation of  Doctors Who Respect Human Life, said that he planned to outline in his address  "a new philosophy of life and new moral standards for all of Europe."
Father Matthew Habiger, chairman of Human Rights International, said that  Russian women needed to understand that "killing is not a solution to human  problems," adding: "The KGB understood killing. Is that the way we want to  treat our babies ?".
The Russian Right to Live organisation, founded in 1992, currently has  about 1,000 members, most of whom are active in Moscow, Saint Petersburg and  the Siberian city of Novosibirsk, Seryakova said.
The conference opened with church services at Moscow's historic Danilov  monastery.
