South Korea warned North Korea on Tuesday it faced  confrontation with the entire world, as emergency meetings were held in Tokyo  and Seoul to discuss possible sanctions against the isolated regime.
"North Korea should recognize the unfortunate fact that it is inviting  confrontation with the entire world community" by ignoring calls for nuclear  transparency, the South's foreign ministry said in a statement.
The statement followed an emergency cabinet meeting, prompted by the  worsening crisis over North Korea's push to discharge spent fuel rods at its  Yongbyon nuclear complex, which western experts suspect is a nuclear bomb  factory.
"We therefore warn North Korea not to waste time," the statement said. It  urged North Korea to immediately suspend its refuelling operation and comply  with all safeguard measures required by the International Atomic Energy Agency  (IAEA).
South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-Joo separately hinted that Seoul  could seek sanctions against Pyongyang outside the UN framework if China used  its veto right in favor of the Stalinist North.
Asked whether sanctions would be toothless without China's participation,  Han told reporters that he thought it may not be necessary, as China had  joined UN calls for North Korea to allow full inspections.
"However, the government is making preparations for every possible  scenario," he said.
In Tokyo, Japanese Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata chaired a national security   council meeting to discuss the nuclear crisis created by North Korea's  accelerated refuelling operation at a five-megawatt reactor in Yongbyon.
Japan's foreign minister, Koji Kakizawa, warned that the world would be in  a "critical phase" in the next two days because North Korea had already  removed about 60 percent of 8,000 rods, Jiji press said.
Japan may set a block on bank transfers and exports to North Korea if the  UN Security Council dedides on sanctions against North Korea, it said.
Hours before the UN Security Council issued a new condemnation of North  Korea's nuclear policy, the presidents of the United States and South Korea  agreed during a telephone conversation to face the nuclear issue squarely, the  presidential office here said.
"If (dialogue) efforts turn out to be fruitless, sanctions against the  North would be unavoidable," South Korean President Kim Young-Sam was quoted  as saying.
US President Bill Clinton said that although the UN statement stopped short  of threatening sanctions, it carried significant weight because it urged  Pyongyang to abide by its obligations related to nuclear safeguards for a  negotiated settlement.
The two leaders agreed that the nuclear issue had reached a "very  dangerous point" and decided to remain in touch during their upcoming overseas  trips, Kim's office said.
On the eve of Kim's week-long state visit to Russia, South Korea put its  entire armed forces and police on "heightened" alert Tuesday, ordering all  field commanders to stay within reach of military communications networks 24  hours a day.
The alert coincided with the UN Security Council statement, but military  officials here said it was directly linked to Kim's overseas trip, during  which he will sound out the Russian position on sanctions.
South Korea has maintained a status of heightened combat readiness since  last November, when the standoff over North Korea's nuclear program began  worsening.
A similar alert was put into effect in late March when Kim travelled to  Japan and China. In response, North Korea raised its military alert status,  heightening tension along the heavily armed border.
More than 1.5 million South and North Korean soldiers are stationed close  to the border, which has been heavily fortified since the devastating 1950-53  Korean conflict.
