An official newspaper warned Thursday that China's  present efforts to bring prices under control in fact risked cutting economic  growth while having little impact on high inflation.
The warning came as the State Statistical Bureau (SSB) said double-digit  inflation had eased slightly in April, with consumer prices rising 21.7  percent on the same month last year, but down from 22.3 percent in first  quarter 1994.
However, the April figure still remained way off the official target of  bringing inflation below 10 percent for the year.
In an opinion page article, the China Daily predicted the government would  stick to its anti-inflation policy for the rest of the year, but said the  present measures were in danger of braking economic growth while failing to  tackle the real cause of rising prices.
The article pointed to "sluggish" retail sales -- created through  government efforts to curb inflation by encouraging citizens to deposit their  money in banks or invest in state bonds rather than hedging against rising  prices through panic buying -- as a danger sign.
Retail sales grew four percent in real terms in April, SSB figures said.
"In addition to inflation, the sluggish market demand will be another  outstanding problem in the second quarter," said Li Guobin of the State  Information Centre.
"The central government should consider reducing interest rates to  somewhat discourage rapid bank savings and encourage buying," said Li,  predicting such a move would not result in a withdrawal of savings, although  bank rates are nine percent below inflation.
The main factor fuelling inflation is not so much credit expansion as  sharp rises in production costs and grain prices at the end of 1993, the  report said.
"The central government will have to pay more attention to the lukewarm  market demand which is believed to be putting the brakes on rapid economic  growth and leaving mounting stockpiles of commodities in its wake," it said.
Between January and April, unsold products in state enterprises grew a  "disastrous" 13.3 percent in value compared with the same period last year,  pushing an increasing number of firms to default on debts, which jumped 29.5  percent in the first four months.
