The fighting spirit shown by Luboslav Penev in his  battle with cancer is exactly what Bulgaria need as they search for their  first ever win in a World Cup finals.
The Valencia forward, who underwent surgery in January to remove a  malignant growth on a testicle, has vowed to make the trip to the United  States -- "even if they have to carry me there."
Bulgaria's coach Dimitar Penev, the player's uncle, has some of the  world's most gifted attacking players at his disposal but he also knows that a  lack of steel at the back could cost his side dear in their group that  includes Balkan neighbours Greece, Argentina and Nigeria.
"We know we can be shaky in defence but we have got one of the best  forward lines in the world and I believe we are good enough to reach at least  the quarter-finals," Penev said.
To do that, Penev's squad will have to overcome a World Cup jinx that has  seen the country fail to register a single win in five finals appearances and  16 matches.
Despite the talents of Barcelona's Hristo Stoichkov and Porto's Emil  Kostadinov, Bulgaria, whose qualifying campaign was marred by a string of  internal squabbles, are lucky to be in the finals.
Only Kostadinov's 91st minute shot against France in November sealed their  2-1 win and snatched a World Cup ticket from under their opponents noses.
Stoichkov is one of the best five strikers in the world but his taste for  controversy has also been a destabilising factor in the squad.
He was banned for life as a 19-year-old in 1985 when he was involved in a  brawl at the end of the Bulgarian Cup final and he clashed repeatedly with  Penev during qualifying.
When Penev dropped him for a match in Israel, the Barcelona forward paid  his own ticket to Tel Aviv and ended up playing.
The outspoken 28-year-old was to cause an even greater furore after  claiming that Sweden had only qualified with help of a posse of Swedish  officials at UEFA -- including president Lennart Johansson. He later disowned  that interview and escaped a ban from the finals.
Keeper Borislav Mikhailov added to the whiff of scandal by alleging his  French club Mulhouse dropped him before the crucial Paris qualifier as a ploy  to make him lose form.
