The Indonesian military has arrested a deputy of  the jailed East Timor pro-independence movement Fretilin leader Xanana Gusmao,  sources said here Friday.
The authorities arrested the East Timorese, identified as Jose Antonio  Neixis,  on Thursday in Malang, East Java, the source said.
Neixis, also known by his as Sama Larua, is a graduate student of  philosophy and a candidate for the priesthood,
An official at Malang military sub-district command denied that any arrest  was made.
But in Sydney, Margherita Tracanelli, a spokeswoman for the National  Council of the Maubere Resistance, an East Timorese pro-independence  organisation, said: "I can confirm that the person arrested was one of the  clandestine leaders in Indonesia, considering East Timor is not in Indonesia."
Neixis, who the source said was Gusmao's deputy in charge for the  clandestine front in Indonesia's cities, was arrested at a post office before  sending a letter from Gusmao's other deputy in charge of armed resistance in  East Timor, Konis Santana.
Gusmao has three deputies. Apart from Konis Santana, Jose Ramos Horta is  living in Australia, in charge of political and diplomatic struggle abroad.
Santana's letter was supposed to have been delivered to an East Timor  conference scheduled to be held in Manila from May 31 to June 3.
Manila on Friday banned foreign participants from entering the Philippines  for the seminar after Jakarta strongly protested over the planned meeting.
Indonesia's President Suharto Friday vowed that his government would not  allow separatist movements to grow in the country.
"We cannot imagine what this nation (would become) should we allow  separatism," he said.
"Our nation might be divided into small weak countries which would easily  be plundered by stronger countries," Suharto said at a ceremony commemorating  the National Awakening day.
Awakening Day celebrates the 1908 founding of Budi Utomo, the first  nationalist organization formed while Indonesia was a Dutch colony. Indonesia  gained independence in 1945.
In addition to the independence movement in East Timor, at least two  separatist movements are battling in the eastern province of Irian Jaya and  the northwestern province of Aceh.
