Northern Yemeni forces said they were in control  Monday of a key southern military base in an oil-rich desert region.
The base at Ateq, capital of eastern Shabwa province, had fallen, an army  spokesman in Sanaa said.
"All of the base's facilities are in the hands of the legal (northern)  forces," he said, adding its capture puts the entire province's military  installations under northern control.
A southern military spokesman in Aden said the claim was "totally  unfounded."
Shabwa province produces 10,000 barrels of oil per day but output is  expected to rise to 50,000 bpd next year, Western oil experts said.
Northern forces loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh also said they had  been in control since Friday of the key base at Al-Anad, on the road to the  southern stronghold of Aden.
Saleh has vowed to capture the port city since his southern rival Ali  Salem al-Baid, the ousted vice president of united Yemen, became president of  an independent state proclaimed at the weekend.
Saleh had spoken before only of blockading the city.
The Yemeni Democratic Republic, with its capital at Aden, has so far not  been recognized internationally despite appeals to "friendly brother  countries."
The northern leader also said his troops were heading for the port of  Mukalla 500 kilometers (300 miles) northeast of Aden, where Baid has set up  base.
The northern forces denied they had fired a missile at Aden, which  authorities there said killed four people and wounded nine others on Sunday.
The north has said it would refrain from attacks on civilians.
In Lahaj province to the west of Aden and Abyan province to the east of  the southern capital, northern forces "cleaned up several pockets of  resistance," the spokesman in Sanaa said.
On Sunday Iraq condemned the south's secession.
"Iraq supports Yemen's legal and constitutional authorities" and denounced  the south's "heinous" declaration of independence, Foreign Minister Mohammed  al-Shahaf said.
Morocco and Jordan spoke only of preserving unity.
The north has issued a statement implying that it would sever links with  any country recognising the new republic.
Sanaa radio said the north would negotiate only with elements of Baid's  Yemen Socialist Party opposed to secession. The comment came after a faction  of the southern party reportedly came out against Baid.
A former president of South Yemen, which disappeared with the unification  of the two Yemens four years ago, said he had turned down an offer from Baid  to serve as vice president of the breakaway republic.
Ali Nasser Mohammad said he opposed the fratricidal fighting and the  secession which "can only harm Yemen's unity."
Meanwhile international relief organisations were to start evacuating up  to 5,000 Somali refugees from the war zone in the south to a safer location  further north on Monday.
The civil war broke out on May 5, culminating a nine-month power struggle  between Baid and Saleh.
