The past year was another "lost year" for the  Balkans where the absence of any prospect of a comprehensive settlement in  Bosnia-Hercegovina carries the threat of conflict for years to come, the  International Institute of Strategic Studies (IISS) said in report Monday.
The IISS, an independent think tank dealing with international security,  conflict and arms issues, said the war in Bosnia had "lurched from one  atrocity to another" with ceasefire merely being used by the belligerents as  "pauses for breath" between offensives.
The situation was aggravated by the divergent and "inconsistent" positions  adopted by London, Paris and Washington, the IISS said.
Nevertheless in the spring of 1994, the lifting of the siege of some towns  including Sarajevo, increased freedom for humanitarian aid convoys and the  Bosnian-Croat federation pact represented the first positive signs.
At that time, "peacekeeping began to look more like peacemaking," the  report said.
"Fatigue and war-wearinesss may finally be making themselves felt, as the  advantage to be gained from further combat seemed to grow more and more  marginal," the IISS said.
But whatever the subsequent developments, "the nature of such low  intensity but destructive war means that local outbreaks of fighting will be  hard to eliminate entirely, at least pending that far distant day when general  disarmament becomes practical."
"Even a successful settlement of the war in Bosnia will by no means  eliminate potential threats of disorder in former Yugoslavia.  Ethnic conflict  resolutions always have a kinetic effect: 'Solutions' found for one area often  make neighbouring arrangements come unstuck," the IISS noted.
"Physical destruction can be restored..... but the psychic wounds left  from such a conflict defy any medicine.  Fear of dominant ethnic majorities  and those majorities' loathing for the minorities under them will continue to  overshadow the area.
In Serbia's mainly ethnic Albanian province of Kosovo as well as in  Macedonia, "the potential for explosion in this part of the former Yugoslaiva  is high... The impetus for a greater Serbia remains and may flare into  fighting at any time," the IISS warned.
ATTENTION EMBARGO
