The Philippines' should have its own satellite by  the end of 1996 under an agreement reached between the government and a  consortium that will own it, officials said Friday.
Communications Undersecretary Josefina Lichauco said Manila set December  1996 for the launch of the "Agila" (Eagle) satellite in its application for an  orbital slot filed with the Geneva-based International Telecommunications  Union (ITU) last Monday.
She said the government was on the verge of an agreement with the 17  private consortium planning to launch the satellite to secure free use of at  least one transponder in Agila.
Manila had originally demanded the consortium provide free one out of  every 12 transponders in the satellite in exchange for the government's filing  the application for the orbital slot with the ITU.
Charlie Villa, representing the consortium in talks with government, said  consensus had been reached where one of the 24 transponders would be provided  free and another offered commercially "on right of first refusal."
The consortium, made up of various telecommunication and broadcast  companies, had originally resisted the government condition, saying it would  force them to absorb the cost of the free transponder, making the satellite  uncompetitive internationally.
But Lichauco justified the demand, saying that applying for an orbital  slot also cost Manila money. Only governments can apply for such slots.
Villa and Lichauco said a "memorandum of agreement" to be signed by both  parties provides for "exclusivity," requiring all satellite users in the  country to use Agila as compensation for the government's free transponder.
Both admitted this would depend on the service being competetively priced.
Lichauco said no decision had been made on the company to launch the  satellite, which would have a lifespan of 12 years and cost about 180 million  to 200 million dollars.
Various companies, including Arianespace of France, Pan American Satellite  of the United States, the Great Wall group of China and Global Information  Systems of Russia, are offering to launch the satellite.
