Black days on Wall Street: in less than two  months, a star of finance succumbed to a drug overdose and one of the gurus of  high finance resigned in with an uproar by admitting addiction to drugs and  alcohol.
These two diverse cases illustrate a disquieting return of substance abuse  to the world's leading center of finance.
On May 11, authorities found Wardell Lazard, 44, the most celebrated black  financier on Wall Street, dead in a Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, hotel room.
The autopsy, made public May 18, revealed the founder of W.R. Lazard and  Co., the man who had become in a few years the greatest black financier  according to the business magazine "Black Enterprise," died of an overdose of  cocaine coupled with vodka.
Larry Kudlow, 46, was one of the masters of thought when it came to Wall  Street matters. A former aide to president Ronald Reagan, a regular on the  television circuit, this untiring worker led the campaign without letup for  lowering taxes.
However, the man whose life served as a model of success, astounded  Americans when he left his job as chief economist in the reputed firm of Bear,  Stern and Coo.
He confessed in the New York Times that he had "an alcohol and  substance-abuse problem." This after having already undergone 15 months of  treatment.
Substance abuse ravaged the Golden Boys of Wall Street during the 1980s,  but the general sentiment was that drugs had been out of style for a decade in  financial circles.
"The problem is definitely as bad, if not worse, than it was 10 years  ago," said Robert Stang, a former police officer responsible for combating  addiction. Stang started a counseling firm to help major finance houses  confront alcoholism and drug addiction.
For him the only change is that drug abuse is no longer a social event.  Drugs are not consumed among friends, rather abuse has become a solitary habit  with high-level people darting out of the office for five minutes to the  toilet to take a hit.
According to New York psychologist Arnold Washton, specialist in the  addiction of people in high places, alcohol and drug use is widespread in  professions subject to stress, of which New York could perhaps be the capital,  according to the Financial Times.
Heroin is the drug on the rise in the market place according to the  police. No longer the needle junkie's vice, heroin has made the scene in  smokeable or snuff form.
However, solitude and social pressure the cause as well as the result of  this fact of society.
"I never had any friends beyond a certain superficial level," said Kudlow  adding that is was easier for many people to take drugs than it was to admit  their weaknesses.
Since his confession, Kudlow said he has received hundreds of  acknowledgments from high-placed people that they suffer the same as he.
Wall Street's large financial enterprises want to remain discreet when it  comes to the drug problem. As a spokesman for Merrill Lynch said, "This is not  something we generally want to talk about."
In response to the rising problem, many firms have strengthened their  programs to fight stress, attempting to eliminate stress which is without  doubt the principal cause of abuse.
