Germany and Vietnam are to open tricky negociations  soon on repatriating tens of thousands of Vietnamese who settled in the former  East Germany under bilateral accords and whom Hanoi now refuses to take back.
"Vietnam is the only country in the world which will not accept the return  of its citizens," the government official responsible for foreigners in  Berlin, Volker Klebb, said Tuesday.
Hanoi's case is that it faces difficulties in resettling at least 45,000  people who would be the subject of negotiated agreements, but it is also  suspected of trying to obtain some sort of compensation or aid in return for  taking them back.
The problem, which Bonn wants to settle quickly, will certainly be  discussed by Germany's minister for cooperation and development Carl-Dieter  Spranger during a four-day visit to Vietnam which begins Thursday as part of  an Asian tour.
"Vietnam has proposed that discussions start at the end of June," said a  spokesman in Spranger's ministry, Leo Kreuz, adding, "We are expecting some  difficult negotiations."
The proposed agreements cover at least 9,000 Vietnamese who have no  residence permits, 11,000 whose permits are only temporary and 25,000 who have  officially sought asylum but who have little prospect of it being granted,  Kreuz said.
A total of 95,000 Vietnamese were recorded as living in Germany at the end  of 1993, 60,000 of them in the east, where the situation is particularly  sensitive.
The former East Germany literally imported numerous Vietnamese, along with  thousands of Mozambicans and Angolans, under agreements between  fellow-communist countries for employment as menial labour in factories.
The Vietnamese saw the bulk of their wages paid directly to the  authorities in Hanoi, but found themselves out of work when German  reunification was followed by economic crisis in the east.
Some have managed to return home, helped by aid from the German government  to set up businesses in Vietnam, but others have gone underground, surviving  by such measures as selling smuggled cigarettes in the street.
According to Klebb, between 10,000 and 15,000 Vietnamese are actually  employed in the east, some 8,000 of whom have managed to obtain new jobs and  residence permits.
For the rest, Bonn gave them until mid-April to put themselves right with  the authorities. Since then, those who have been unable to do so are  threatened with explulsion, a decision that lies ultimately with Germany's  state governments.
"Nothing will happen as long as no agreement is concluded, as Vietnam is  refusing to take them back," the interior ministry of one such state,  Saxony-Anhalt, noted.
Meanwhile the undesirables have been fleeing the immigrant hostels where  the former communist government had parked them, but they have to face the  racial hostility which is now prevalent in the east.
"The Vietnamese are in general accepted better than some others but as  they are the largest foreign community in the former East Germany they are  inevitably exposed to racism," Klebb said.
