A sharp drop in the production of basic foods means  that Southern Africa will need massive injections of aid to avoid widespread  starvation this year, according to expert predictions and local reports Monday.
The quarterly food security bulletin of the ten-nation Southern African  Development Community (SADC) says poor rains mean a "significant drop" of some  15 percent in the cereal harvest this year, from 11.65 million tonnes last  year to 9.95 million tonnes.
It says a "relatively poor rainy season" has been experienced throughout  the region except in Botswana, Namibia and Lesotho.
And it says that "current forecasts are likely to be revised further  downwards in view of the premature end of the rainy season which has wiped out  prospects of a much larger 1993/94 cereal harvest in many countries."
The production of maize, a staple food in the region, is expected to be  particularly hard hit, dropping 20 percent from 9.11 million tonnes last year  to 7.29 million tonnes.
Malawi and Zambia will experience "very sharp declines in maize production  of 59 percent and 40 percent respectively."
In contrast, South Africa expects a maize harvest of 12.8 million tonnes  -- up from the estimated 8.9 million tonnes of the previous season -- and is  expected to be the main source of maize imports for the region, the bulletin  says.
SADC's gloomy forecast is borne out by the UN's Food and Agriculture  Organisation, which said in its latest report that "prospects are  deteriorationg rapidly, particularly in Eastern Africa and some other parts of  sub-Saharan Africa.
"Timely and adequate international assistance will be required throughout  1994 to avoid a major food crisis in these countries."
In Zimbabwe, the country's main daily newspaper, The Herald, reported  Monday that "hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren ... face starvation."
It said the government was making "frantic efforts" to replenish food  stocks for the supplementary feeding programme for schoolchildren introduced  during the nation's worst drought in living memory two years ago.
The south of the country has been particularly hard hit by erratic rains  and prolonged dry spells.
Recent favourable rainy seasons had led donor countries and the government  to look at scaling down the supplementary feeding programme, but reports  showed large numbers of schoolchildren going without food since schools opened  for the second term on May 10, the Herald reported.
