The Chinese Justice Ministry on Tuesday dismissed  as "groundless fabrication" allegations of maltreatment of prisoners and  export of prison labour products by a US human rights group.
A ministry spokesman confirmed that Beijing No. 2 Prison had a contract  with a local factory for inmates to act as quality inspectors. But he denied  allegations in a 60-page Human Rights Watch/Asia report that the products were  exported to the United States.
The spokesman, quoted by Xinhua news agency, said all relevant laws over  prison labour and treatment of inmates were strictly adhered to.
Human Rights Watch said in a report officially released Tuesday that the  Beijing Latex Factory was using dozens of political and other prisoners to  carry out quality control checking of medical examination gloves sent to the  United States.
It said prisoners from Beijing No. 2 Prison were used by the factory which  sent 100 tons of gloves to the United States.
"This is the first reported case in which a specific, named group of  Chinese political prisoners has been confirmed as having had direct  involvement in the production of a clearly identified batch of such US  government-banned imports," said the New York-based group.
"The contract contains a clear stipulation that the inspected gloves can  only be marketed on the domestic market and this has been effectively  implemented," the justice ministry spokesman was quoted as saying.
Exports of prison labour products to the United States would violate  Sino-US agreements and run counter to one of the seven conditions laid down by  President Bill Clinton for renewing China's trade privileges.
Clinton must announce by June 3 whether China will get a new Most Favoured  Nation status. He has made significant progress in improving human rights in  China a pre-condition for renewal.
The official also rejected the allegations of maltreatment of prisoners in  the report, which said torture was routine in Beijing No. 2 Prison.
"We act strictly according to relevant laws -- we carry out civilised  management over prisoners according to the law," he said. The spokesman added  that any acts causing bodily harm to or infringing the rights of prison  inmates should carry criminal responsibility.
Accusing Human Rights Watch/Asia and other organisations of repeatedly  making up "sensational rumours" about China's prisons, the ministry spokesman  said the allegations of maltreatment were "completely groundless fabrication."
He also reiterated the foreign ministry's dismissal of the bulk of the  report, which alleged that hundreds of previously unknown prisoners arrested  after the 1989 pro-democracy crackdown are serving lengthy jail terms.
"This is a sheer fabrication with ulterior motives," he said, in a clear  reference to the sensitive timing of the report's release, just a week before  Clinton must decide on whether to renew China's MFN trade status.
The official said most of the "small number of people" imprisoned for  crimes after the suppression of the 1989 democracy movement had now been  released.
Human Rights Watch said Technical Consulting Trade Co of Roscoe, Illinois  had admitted importing the gloves between October and February.
But the family run company denied knowledge to the rights group of  knowledge that prisoners were used by the Beijing Latex Factory.
