US marines are to hold maneuvers in the  Caribbean on an amphibious vessel, but the exercise is unrelated to the  situation in Haiti, Pentagon officials said Tuesday.
Defense Department spokesman Dennis Boxx said 650 marines were involved in  the maneuvers of undetermined duration on the assault ship Wasp, due to leave  its base in Norfolk, Virginia, on Tuesday.
The craft, which carries an undisclosed number of helicopters, was to make  stops at US naval bases at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and Puerto Rico.
Boxx said the maneuvers should not be interpreted as a curtain raiser to a  US invasion of Haiti, which has been raised as a possibility by President Bill  Clinton and urged by some members of Congress to restore democratic rule.
"The ship is simply undergoing refresher training ... It has come out from  overhaul and it is now conducting refresher training," Boxx said.
The marines will be on board because "that's all part of the orientation  of the unit," Boxx said.
Meanwhile, to implement its new policy of giving Haitian refugees a  hearing before forced repatriation, the United States said it had chartered  two Ukrainian-flagged ships for use as floating immigration centers.
The first ship will be ready by Monday, with a capacity of 700 people, and  will be replaced by the second ship in mid-June with a capacity of 750 people.
The cost of leasing the ships is between 29,000 and 34,000 dollars a day,  not including fuel and other costs, Boxx said.
The US Coast Guard on Tuesday returned 150 more Haitian boat people who  tried to reach Florida because the new policy of screening refugees at sea was  not yet in place.
Despite Pentagon denials, rumors that the United States is about to launch  armed intervention in Haiti persist.
Boxx said the Wasp's maneuvers had nothing to do with major recent  exercises off the US east coast involving 44,000 men. The Boston Globe  reported that the maneuvers had been a mock invasion of Haiti, something the  Pentagon denied.
