Business leaders hailed President Bill  Clinton's decision Thursday to renew China's trade privileges while labor and  human rights activists expressed dismay and outrage.
Senate majority leader George Mitchell, a leading critic of Beijing's  human rights policy, said he disagreed with Clinton's action to renew most  favored nation (MFN) status and would introduce legislation seeking stiffer  sanctions.
"The experience of recent years has been that each concession to the  Chinese communist regime encourages its intransigence. I believe this will be  the unfortunate result of this decision," Mitchell said.
Reaction from the business community, which lobbied heavily to avoid tough  sanctions that could hurt the trade worth 40 billion dollars annually, was  favourable
"We are most pleased that the administration recognizes that trade is but  one of a number of issues the United States and China must resolve together  through cooperation, not confrontation," the US Chamber of Commerce said in a  statement after Clinton announced a decoupling of the rights issue from the  annual review of trade privileges.
"Tying MFN status to human rights is like using a blunt instrument for  brain surgery," it said.
M.R. Greenberg, chairman of the 250-member United States-China Business  Council, said Clinton's approach would permit development of bilateral trade  and investment and strengthen of overall Sino-US relations.
"While we will surely continue to have differences, the council believes  that the best way to resolve them is through the energetic expansion of our  relations in all important fields," Greenberg said.
Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers,  called Clinton's move to delink rights and trade historic and described it as  "the best decision for the American economy and jobs."
Barrie Wiggham, Hong Kong's economic and trade commissioner in Washington  welcomed the move, saying, "We have always argued that it's best to keep  politics and trade apart as far as possible."
"In Hong Kong people obviously share concerns about human rights in China  and therefore share the same objectives as the admininistration," he said.
"It's much better to engage China in a broad dialogue and we stand a  better chance of achieving that objective this way," he added.
Human rights activists and dissidents expressed shock and outrage, saying  Clinton had failed to live up to his pledge that China's trade privileges  would not be renewed without "significant progress" on human rights.
"It's not even a token gesture," Haiching Zhao, president of the dissident  National Council on Chinese Affairs, said of the limited military sanctions  imposed by Clinton.
"Thousands of democracy activists and millions of Chinese people now face  the prospect of a dramatic new wave of repression because the president has  decided to side with the communist hard-liners and merchants of profit," Zhao  said.
"Far from improving, the overall human rights sitution has significantly  worsened in the year since the executive order was issued," said a statement  from the US-based Human Rights Watch/Asia.
"I'm disappointed with the president's position. The president has missed  an historic opportunity to bring about fundamental change in China and Tibet,"  said Lodi Gyari, president of the International Campaign for Tibet.
Gyari added that he was pleased Clinton acknowledged Beijing had made no  progress on Tibet, which China annexed in 1951.
"I hope that this is just a change of tactics and not a change of policy,"  Gyari said.
Lane Kirkland, president of the AFL-CIO labor federation, said Clinton's  move "sends a clear message to the world: No matter what America says about  democracy and human rights, in the final analysis, profits, not people, matter  most."
