Here is the text of the statement issued  Thursday by US State Department spokesman Michael McCurry on the exchange of  liaison offices between the United States and Vietnam:
The United States and Vietnam have reached agreement on the legal  framework for the opening of liaison offices in Hanoi and Washington. The date  for  opening the offices will depend on implementation of an agreement to  return each country's diplomatic properties.
On February 3, 1994, President Clinton announced the end of the US trade  embargo against Vietnam. The president also announced his intention to  establish a liaison office in Vietnam. This office should facilitate progress  on all issues of concern, particularly POW/MIA accounting. The liaison office  will also enable us to provide services for an increasing number of Americans  in Vietnam, and advance our human rights dialogue.
On May 20, 1994, Assistant Secretary of State Winston Lord transmitted a  letter to the Vietnamese Vice Foreign Minister Le Mai, proposing that the two  governments establish liaison offices within the framework of the 1963 Vienna  Convention on Consular Relations (VCCR). In his letter, Assistant Secretary  Lord stated that "there remain many technical and substantive issues that will  have to be resolved between our two governments before full normalization of  relations can be realized, particularly progress on American POWs and MIAs."
On May 21, 1994, Vice Foreign Minister Le Mai wrote to Assistant Secretary  Lord, accepting the US proposal. The Vice Foreign Minister stated that "with  the establishment of the liaison offices and the overall development of  relations between the two countries, we will have favorable conditions to  pursue resolution of issues of common concern to the two sides, among which is  the issue of people missing from the war."
In addtion to this exchange of letters, the US and Vietnam have signed an  "agreed minute" containing further details regarding the liaison offices,  including on consular notification and access.
The US will be notified within 96 hours of the arrest or detention of any  US passport holder, irrespective of that person's place of birth. The US will  be provided consular access to the detained person within 48 hours after  notification. This agreement will enable the US liaison office staff to  effectively perform its function of providing services to American citizens in  distress. Similar notification and access will be provided in the case of  Vietnamese citizens arrested in the United States.
A date for the opening of the liaison offices will be set following  implementation of Vietnam's agreement to return US diplomatic property. Both  Assistant Secretary Lord and Vice Foreign Minister Le Mai expressed interest  in opening the offices soon.
