Japan's ruling coalition, which has lost a majority  in parliament due to the Socialist pullout, eroded further Friday as four  members of former prime minister Morihiro Hosokawa's party crossed the floor.
Japan's parliament, meanwhile, approved a second stop-gap budget of 10.89  trillion yen (104 billion dollars) to cover 40 days while political turmoil  prevented the passage of a state budget for the fiscal year from April 1.
It followed a 50-day provisional budget of 11.05 trillion yen as debate on  the full budget had been stymied by Hosokawa's resignation over a personal  money scandal and infighting within the nine-month-old coalition.
The fresh defectors said they were unhappy with the creation of a voting  block among coalition parties including Hosokawa's Japan New Party to alienate  the Socialists last month.
They set up a new political group named "Minshu no Kaze (Democratic Wind)"  with Satoshi Arai as its chief representative.
"We will call on the Social Democratic Party (Socialists) and others to  establish a council to discuss the possibility of seizing power," Arai told a  press conference.
But he added that the group would still support the government of  Hosokawa's successor, Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata, from outside the coalition.
The Socialists bolted the coalition after Hata's Renewal Party, the Japan  New Party, the centrist Democratic Socialist Party and other groups formed the  voting block, named "Kaishin (Renovation)" soon after electing Hata as prime  minister a month earlier.
Kaishin's strength has now dropped to 130 seats in the 511-seat House of  Representatives while another coalition party, the buddhist-backed Komeito,  has 52 seats.
The SDP with 74 lower house seats has been exploring the possibility of  cooperating with the scandal-tainted Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), which  lost its 38-year grip on power in elections last July but still has 206 seats.
In another development Friday, Hata's cabinet formally approved a freeze  on proposed hikes in public service charges until the end of this year, an  action widely seen as a gambit to boost popular support for his government  ahead of a possible increase in indirect taxes.
Finance Minister Hirohisa Fujii told a press conference Friday that the  freeze on domestic telephone charges, public housing rents, taxi fares,  expressway tolls and fire insurance premiums, should be highly appreciated as  "a political decision by Prime Minister Hata."
But bureaucrats have reacted angrily to Hata's surprise action, which was  announced on Wednesday and annuled some of the proposals painstakingly worked  out by government departments to balance finances.
Vice Finance Minister Jiro Saito was quoted by major newspapers as saying,  "I have not been consulted in advance." He added that it was "unreasonable" to  freeze "across the board" different kinds of proposals for hikes
Saito's broadside was labelled by a newspaper as a "bureaucratic coup  d'etat."
