China has met the two key requirements to have  their most favored nation (MFN) status continued said US Commerce Secretary  Ron Brown here Saturday.
And he warned that if MFN was not granted US businessmen could lose out to  French, German and Japanese companies in the multi-million dollar Chinese  market.
"They're (China) going to spend over 600 billion dollars in infrastructure  projects between now and the year 2,000. I certainly want American business  and industry to participate in that so we can create jobs for the American  people here at home," said Brown on CNN's Novak and Evans programme.
"If we are not there commercially the Japanese and the French and the  Germans and others will be there, countries who in their commercial dealings  have generally not demonstrated any great concern about human rights," added  Brown.
Under an executive order last year, President Bill Clinton listed seven  requirements linked to human rights for China to continue to have MFN. Two of  them were mandatory - immigration and halting export of goods made by forced  prison labour.
"I think most objective observers agree that the Chinese have met the two  mandatory requirements. The question is - have they made substantial progress  in the other areas; not whether the human rights situation is perfect in  China," said Brown.
Earlier this week President Bill Clinton said he had not yet made a  decision on whether to extend China's trade benefits.
Clinton, who must recommend to Congress by June 3 whether to renew China's  MFN trade status, has said that China must make significant progress on its  human rights record before the extension is granted.
"The decision is due to be made based on facts as they exist moving up to  the deadline of June 3 so that it would have been inappropriate to make a  decision in January, February or March," he said.
Meanwhile China publically warned Thursday that any conditions attached to  renewal of its MFN status would have an adverse influence on Chinese-US ties.
A foreign ministry spokeswoman said MFN was "a reciprocal and a mutually  beneficial trade arrangement."
"Any move which runs counter to this will undermine the foundation for the  economic and trade relations between the two countries and will have adverse  influences on Sino-US relations," she said.
