US forces carried out a mock air,  land and sea invasion involving 44,000 soldiers this week, but US officials  denied a report it was a rehearsal for military intervention in Haiti.
The Boston Globe reported that the timing and tactics of the exercise,  code-named Agile Provider, were developed with Haiti in mind.
"Routine training, routine training," said White House press secretary Dee  Dee Myers. "As you know, these things take a while to schedule, and they  happen regularly. I wouldn't read too much into that."
A spokeswoman for the US Atlantic Command, Major Jamie Roach, confirmed  that a 16-day exercise involving 44,000 troops had ended Wednesday, but denied  it was staged with Haiti in mind and disputed other details of the report.
"Anything that happens in this hemisphere, whether it be a troop movement  or an exercise, people are trying to tie to reports of a Haiti invasion. It's  just not valid," said Roach.
Most of the troops were American, she said, but there were small  detachments of Dutch and Surinamese troops.
The Globe said the exercise used North Carolina and Puerto Rico as landing  sites for the mock invasion involving amphibious landing vessels, a submarine  and more than 200 sorties by Marine jet fighers.
Army Rangers landed 10 miles inland, seizing road junctions and knocking  out military communications, while special forces attacked command posts and  radio stations, according to the Globe.
The Globe, which cited unidentified military sources, said the exercise  was aimed at working out problems that arose during the 1983 invasion of  Grenada in coordinating different services.
A spokesman for the Atlantic command said the exercises had as a target a  fictitious country run by an "unfriendly leader" who had suddenly seized power.
But Roach said the attack scenario did not mention a Caribbean country.  "It was a Southwest Asia scenario," she said.
She said she was unaware that the Roosevelt Roads Naval Station in Puerto  Rico took part in the exercise.
Most of it took place off the coast of North Carolina, but troops trained  near Savannah, Georgia and improved an airport on the Bahamian Island of Great  Inagua, she said.
President Bill Clinton warned last week that he did not rule out a  military intervention to restore democracy in Haiti, and the UN Security  Council gave the Haitian military leaders until May 21 to step down or face a  full commercial embargo.
The swearing-in of an interim president by the Haitian Senate Wednesday,  however, appears to confirm the military's determination to resist all  diplomatic pressure for their removal.
The US military option for Haiti has received mixed reviews abroad.  Visiting French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said Thursday that his government  would not participate in such a venture. The French diplomat, however,  reiterated his condemnation of the military regime in Port-au-Prince and the  naming of interim president Emile Jonassaint, whom Juppe described as a  "puppet with no legitimacy."
