Heavy fighting was raging to the north and  east of the southern stronghold of Aden Wednesday, as fear spread through the  city's population.
Southern forces loyal to ousted vice-president Ali Salem al-Baid said they  had launched a large scale counter-offensive against rival northern forces to  recapture areas in Abyan, some 50 kilometres (31 miles) northeast of Aden.
While at the south's giant air base of Al-Anad some 60 kilometres (36  miles) north of Aden northern troops fought artillery duals with southern  forces, as northern commanders said they had seized the complex.
For the first time since the war broke out two weeks ago the sound of  heavy artillery fire echoed round Aden.
It sent a shiver of fear through the 500,000-strong population, who had  been reassured only the previous night that the southerners were keeping the  offensive at bay.
Remaining foreigners and some local people crowded the port in a bid to  escape the city by boat, amid claim and counter-claim on which side was  gaining the upper hand.
In Abyan a southern military source reported "violent battles" between  southern troops and units from the northern Al-Amalika brigade, or "the  giants," as the north retreated in face of a southern advance.
Al-Amalika commanders were told "to surrender with their heavy weapons,"  but the northerners had refused and demanded to "retreat from their positions  with their arms," he added.
But at Al-Anad a northern commander, Colonel Ali Ahmad Thabet, said the  base was held by his troops, who were securing it before pushing south to Aden.
Another officer, Major Yahya Sanad, said "the north will go into Aden, for  sure. We want to capture Ali Salem al-Baid, inshaallah (God willing)."
An AFP correspondent said artillery rounds crashed into a fortified  hilltop bunker at the base Wednesday where northern Yemeni Soviet built T-55  tanks were positioned.
Southern jets flying high overhead at the base drew intermittent bursts of  anti-aircraft fire.
Thabet said up to 200 southerners had been captured in the battle for  Al-Anad, along with a large quantity of weapons including surface to air  missiles and tanks.
But a military source in Aden said 1,500 northern officers and soldiers  had surrendered at another front in the Karich region, 45 kilometers (27  miles) northeast of Aden.
Fighting between troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh and his  southern rival broke out on May 5 after a long dispute over how to run the  country, created when former North and South Yemen were merged in May 1990.
Meanwhile Foreign Minister Mohamed Salem Bassandawa, a northerner, said  Saleh's forces have kept the upper hand and continue to advance to Aden from  the north, east and west.
Bassandawa, who is on a visit to Qatar, told reporters the northern units  were 20 kilometers (12 miles) away from the Aden airport.
Baid's Yemen Socialist Party has stepped up conscription, taking thousands  of youths to the front, willingly or not, aboard party vehicles that were  criss-crossing the city.
None of the warring parties has so far published a casualty toll, but the  southerners have said the losses are "large and horrible."
Saleh has turned a deaf ear to Arab and international appeals for a  ceasefire, insisting that Baid and his aides surrender or flee into exile.
