Hundreds of mourners gathered outside the New  York home of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Sunday to pay their last respects  while her son, John, sought solace on skates.
Photographers staking out the area grabbed their cameras as Kennedy and  his companion, actress Daryl Hannah, went roller-skating past the Church of  Saint Ignatius Loyola where a wake is to be held later for Onassis.
The church is just a few blocks from the Fifth Avenue apartment where  Onassis died of cancer Thursday aged 64, and where admirers were leaving  flowers for John F. Kennedy's widow.
"There was something she gave to us that was very magical," said Sonia  Lopez who left a single peony, a flower she had heard was Onassis' favorite.  "I felt I loved her in some way I don't understand."
President Bill Clinton and his wife Hillary had been invited to the  service at the Roman Catholic Church in Manhattan, but they chose not to  attend fearing it would conflict with the family's wish for privacy, the White  House said.
Hillary Clinton will be at Monday's funeral services in New York and will  accompany Onassis' remains back to Washington for the burial services later in  the day, when her husband is to make some brief remarks.
Meanwhile, preparations were underway at Arlington National Cemetery,  where Onassis will be buried alongside the slain president and two of the  couple's children, a daughter who was stillborn in 1956 and a son who died  shortly after birth in 1963.
Thousands of visitors filed past Kennedy's grave, the most visited site in  the sprawling cemetary which draws some four million people a year.
Flowers which had been sent to the late president's brother, Senator  Edward Kennedy, were delivered to the cemetary and placed at the grave which  was dug Saturday for Onassis, who was also the widow of Greek shipping tycoon  Aristotle Onassis.
The public and the press will be barred from Monday's burial at the  Kennedy family's request, but Sunday they were allowed within a few feet of  the hillside grave which is marked with a continously burning flame.
"I'm a little surprised it's as open as it is," said Stephen Mullany, a  visitor from North Carolina who had seen Kennedy give an address at the Tomb  of the Unknown Soldier 11 days before the president was slain in 1963.
