Airborne Israeli commandos abducted a pro-Iranian  Islamic leader in Syrian-controlled east Lebanon on Saturday in a daring  operation aimed at tracing an airman missing for the last eight years.
Mustafa Dirani whom Israel holds responsible for the capture of Israeli  airman Ron Arad in Lebanon in 1986 was seized from his home in the village of  Qsarnabaa in the Bekaa Valley, an Israeli army spokesman said.
Arad is one of six Israeli soldiers who went missing in Lebanon since 1982  but he is the only one still believed to be alive.
The Lebanese army said two helicopters were used in the operation at  Qsarnabaa, 75 kilometers (45 miles) northeast of Beirut, that coincided with  the most important Moslem feast.
The helicopters came in from the sea, flying over the Mediterranean and  uninhabited areas of the Christian Kesruwan region, and heading for the  mountains before touching down near Qsarnabaa, it said.
Patrols were rushed to Qsarnabaa to intercept the commandos and  anti-aircraft batteries opened up but missed the choppers, the army said.  Military sources said Syrian and Lebanese radars had detected the aircraft.
Witnesses cited by state-run Tele Liban said the commandos landed on hills  overlooking Qsarnabaa. They planted mines as they moved toward the house of  Dirani after cutting off power from the area.
They bound the hands of his wife, children and one of his brothers who  lived in the building.
Another brother was able to grab a hunting rifle and take a shot at the  commandos as they were leaving with 46-year-old Dirani, the witnesses said,  adding that traces of blood were found on the ground.
Islamic leaders snapped at the Lebanese authorities and accused them of  negligence in the abduction of Dirani, whom Israel described as the leader of  a small group called the "Resistance of the Faithful."
The government "wants to disarm those who are determined to confront the  Israeli enemy at a time when the Jewish state is acting with impunity in the  country," charged the spiritual leader of Hezbollah, Sheikh Mohammad Hussein  Fadlallah.
The Iranian-backed Hezbollah movement denounced the operation as a "new  Israeli crime that adds to its black list of terrorism" and stressed the  abduction "will not deter us from continuing to liberate our land whatever the  cost."
The operation took place as Moslems started to celebrate Al-Fitr feast  which falls at the end of pilgrimage to Mecca and marks Abraham's willingness  to sacrifice his son.
In Syria, which deploys 35,000 troops in neighbouring Lebanon, apart from  an Israeli-occupied strip in the south, the official news agency SANA branded  the operation "a new act of piracy against Lebanon."
But the army and political leadership in Israel praised the commandos who  carried out the abduction.
"This flawless, very bold and pinpoint operation allowed us to seize a man  who is very dangerous for Israel. It shows our army has a long reach and can  do the impossible to retrieve our missing," Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said.
"The No. 1 problem is to know that has happened to Ron Arad and to whom he  was handed over since his capture," he said.
It was the second time an Israeli commando seized a Moslem fundamentalist  leader in Lebanon.
In an almost identical operation in July 1989, Israeli commandos snatched  Sheikh Abdel Karim Obeid, a cleric and member of Hezbollah, from his home in  south Lebanon. Obeid is still being held.
Dirani, also known as Abu Ali, was a former head of security in the  pro-Syrian Amal movement. He was kicked out of Amal in 1988 and joined ranks  with Hezbollah before setting up his own faction.
Amal chief Nabih Berry, now the speaker of parliament, charged four years  ago that Dirani had sold Arad to Iran for one million dollars. Tehran has  denied the report.
Arad's plane was shot down over south Lebanon in October 1986 by  Palestinian anti-aircraft fire during an Israeli raid on the Palestinian  refugee camp of Ain Helwe near the port city of Sidon.
The airman had ejected and was captured on the ground by Amal militiamen,  falling into the hands of Dirani.
Several Lebanese and other Arab officials said at the end of 1993 that  Arad was still alive although no proof has been supplied by his captors. His  place of detention remains a mystery.
Egypt ambassador to Israel, Mahmud Bassiuni, said in December that Arad  was detained in Lebanon.
Moslem fundamentalists in Lebanon have demanded the release of hundreds of  Lebanese held in Israeli jails, including Obeid, in exchange for Arad and the  bodies of the other missing Israelis.
