Arch enemies Israel and Syria could make peace  within the coming months, Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Yossi Beilin  predicted Friday.
Beilin, speaking during an interview with CNN monitored in Cyprus, said  the "Syrians are the key to the continuation of the peace problem. Without  them there is no comprehensive peace."
He was talking ahead of a visit by US Secretary of State Warren  Christopher, due in Damascus on Sunday on his second peace shuttle within a  month.
Syrian President Hafez al-Assad "prefers to negotiate with us either in  Washington or via the Americans in a kind of shuttle diplomacy," Beilin said,  adding that Israel should accept that.
"I think the American mediation is vital. We will be able to see peace  between us and Syria within months."
Syria has rejected recent calls by Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin to  hold secret talks, along the lines of the Oslo negotiations which eventually  led to the Israel-PLO autonomy accord for the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of  Jericho.
Talks between Syria and Israel have broken down over the issue of the  Israeli-occupied Golan heights, seized from Syria in the 1967 Middle East War.
Syria warned earlier Friday it still insisted on a total Israeli  withdrawal from the strategic heights and was sceptical about Christopher's  visit.
A Syrian official in Damascus, asking not to be named, charged that Israel  had "minimized the US role by reducing it to a mere postman delivering the  Israeli point of view without any amendment."
The Israelis, during Christopher's last shuttle between Israel and Syria  earlier in May, had proposed "security arrangements before a peace treaty,  then a phased withdrawal over a long period," he said.
But any peace deal with Israel depended on a full withdrawal from the  Golan Heights, which the Jewish state annexed in 1981.
"Any settlement not based on the central issue of land is useless," an  official in Damascus said.
Meanwhile Beilin added that Israel could withdraw totally from the  occupied West Bank within five years.
He said discussions still had to be held with the Palestine Liberation  Organisation over the coming years to solve the issue under the terms of the  Declaration of Principles signed in Washington in September.
"But the permanent solution will be implemented on May 4, 1999. That is  the agreement between us," Beilin added.
