The International Atomic Energy Agency late Tuesday  said it was still technically possible to verify if North Korean fuel rods  were being used for nuclear weapons, as Pyongyang came under mounting pressure  over its nuclear plant.
The IAEA said North Korea had speeded up the removal of fuel rods at its  experimental Yongbyon reactor, which could make it impossible to determine  whether plutonium had been diverted to weapons use.
In a statement published Tuesday at its Vienna headquarters, the IAEA said  it had outlined the "technical options which might still, at this late stage  (...) be viable to preserve the Agency's ability to verify the history" of the  reactor core.
"No technical or safety reasons stand in the way of any one of the  options," which would specifically show "whether fuel has been diverted from  the reactor in past years," it said.
It also rejected an alternative proposal by North Korea to store some the  rods under seal, which it said would not allow the IAEA to identify the  location of rods and verify their use.
The IAEA statement followed the UN Security Council's call Monday for  immediate consultations between the Agency and North Korea, prompted by  Pyongyang's continued refusal to allow international inspections.
North Korea maintains that its nuclear programme has only peaceful ends,  but the United States suspects it of producing weapons and says the removed  fuel rods could contain enough material for several nuclear bombs.
Washington and Tokyo, one of North Korea's biggest trade partners, used  economic pressure Tuesday to persuade North Korea to dispel world fears.
White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said new talks sought by Pyongyang  on helping North Korea's economy could be suspended if the communist regime  persisted in its defiance.
And Japanese Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata, warning Tuesday that the  unmonitored removal of fuel rods could lead to "a catastrophe," reiterated his  offer of economic help if North Korea "opens its heart to the international  community."
Japanese Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa was quoted as saying North Korean  scientists had already withdrawn 4,800 out of the 8,000 fuel rods at Yongbyon,  and the situation would be in a "critical phase" in the next two days.
