The cancellation of a visit by Japanese Emperor  Akihito to Pearl Harbour during his US visit next month, has caused a storm in  Japan, amid claims that the move is an embarrassing diplomatic blunder.
Although the cancellaton has not been offically confirmed, the Japanese  press reported the change of plan Thursday leading to a number of critics  calling into question the wisdom of the planned visit by the emperor, who is  still the nation's symbol.
"I do not think that the emperor should visit (Pearl Harbour) in the first  place. But once the decision was made to go ahead with the visit, it would  have been better if they had just carried it out," said Osamu Kuno, a  philosopher and critic of Japanese militarism, Friday.
Rinjiro Sodei, professor at Hosei University, believes that because the  emperor's itinery had already been made public in the United States, calling  the visit off was a "diplomatic blunder" which could cause controversy there.
Japanese press reports said the emperor and Empress Michiko were  originally due to visit the site June 24, the last day of their two week trip,  to lay a wreath and express their condolences for the victims of the raid.
They were also scheduled to watch a film on the attack.
The raid on December 7, 1941, launched before the Japanese decalaration of  war against the United States, killed 2,403 servicemen and destroyed scores of  ships and aircraft, triggering America's entry into World War II.
The inclusion of the visit in the emperor's itinerary was bound to stir up  controversy in Japan where the country's wartime role is still a politically  sensitive topic.
Critics of the visit have said that no US president has ever visited  Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the two cities almost obliterated by US atomic bombs  at the end of the war.
They also say the visit would accord the emperor a diplomatic role which  would exceed his function.
The visit is to be replaced by one to a US war cemetery on a hill  overlooking the harbour. The cemetery contains the bodies of soldiers killed  throughout the war rather than just in the 1941 raid.
