President Bill Clinton returns to Europe this  week for 50th anniversary D-Day celebrations with the same goal as his first  official visit in January: to reassure Europeans skeptical of US commitment.
Clinton's seven-day itinerary, which has him leaving Rome Thursday for  Normandy and Paris before winding up in Oxford, will be the second of three  trips to Europe scheduled within six months.
He plans to attend the Group of Seven industrialized nations summit in  Naples, Italy, in July.
The main objective of the D-Day trip, explained a senior administration  official who asked not to be identified, will be "to reaffirm once again  American ties to Europe and to affirm the importance of Europe to the United  States in economic and political and security terms."
Clinton has been unable to dispel European doubts about the relationship,  despite his up-close efforts in January.
Washington's attitude toward the Bosnian conflict has had a lot to do with  that and is expected to be a major topic in discussions Clinton has with  Italian, British and French officials on the sidelines of the ceremonies.
Clinton, the first American president born after World War II, will  showcase the liberation of Europe and the sacrifices that made it possible as  an inspiration for the current generation -- freed of the Cold War -- to build  on the legacy of their elders.
The United States wants to "promote that vision of an integrated, wider  Europe," a democratic and market-based Europe "from Portugal across through  Russia," the White House official said.
The Partnership for Peace initiative, aimed at linking former Soviet bloc  countries with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, is part of that vision.
A subject of fierce debate when it was launched in January, the  partnership has grown to 18 members. Russia's recent announcement that it was  close to joining was greeted with relief in Washington.
Clinton will also argue for the consolidation of democracy in central and  eastern Europe and, most of all, for an accelerated economic integration of  eastern Europe with the rest of Europe.
The president will elaborate on the integration theme in a June 6 address  to the French National Assembly.
The integration motif will surface more subtly in Clinton's speeches at  three cemeteries where some 21,000 American troops are buried -- in Nettuno,  Italy, Cambridge in Britain and in Coleville-sur-mer, France.
"The president will be trying to make it clear that we are not celebrating  the defeat of certain nations. We are celebrating the victory of an idea, a  liberating idea, of democracy," the official said.
But the failure to invite not only Germany but Russia to the June 6  ceremonies is seen in the United States as contradicting the declared desire  for integration, as well as the current geopolitical situation.
Susan Eisenhower, granddaughter of General Dwight Eisenhower, the supreme  allied commander of the Normany landing, says the Clinton administration  should have insisted that Germany and Russia be allowed to attend before  agreeing to the president's participation.
The White House official refused to say whether the administration  considers their exclusion a mistake and whether any effort had been made to  change the opinion of Paris and London.
"I think you will find the president going out of his way to recall the  sacrifices which were enormous and the contributions to victory which were  enormous made by the Russian people in World War II," the official said.
Clinton will also emphasize "that one of the lessons of the last 50 years  in our relations with Germany, Italy and Japan has been how former adversaries  can become friends and how we can define our security best not in terms of  confrontation (...) but through cooperation and integration," he added.
Clinton is scheduled to visit Germany and Poland in July after the G7  summit.
