The stock and bond markets continued to bask in  optimism Wednesday a day after the Federal Reserve tightened credit, but the  dollar was unmoved.
The Dow Jones index of 30 leading industrials was down 1.84 points at  3,718.77 at 12:45 p.m. (1645 GMT) after opening with an 8.29-point gain.  Trading was heavy, with roughly 185 million shares exchanged.
The slight downturn was due to profit-taking and probably would not last,  said James Schroeder, an analyst at MMS International.
Experts had expected the wave of profit-taking after the Dow jumped nearly  50 points Tuesday following the Federal Reserve's increase in two key  short-term interest rates.
The Wall Street barometer closed Tuesday at 3,720.61, its highest level  since March 28, after the Fed raised the federal funds rate and the discount  rate by a half a percentage point, to 4.25 percent and 3.50 percent,  respectively.
On the bond market Wednesday, interest rates on the main 30-year Treasury  bond averaged 7.26 percent, unchanged from late Tuesday.
The Fed's half-point rate hikes seemed to reassure investors that another  intervention was not lurking around the corner. The markets tumbled after the  central bank bumped up the federal funds rate a quarter percentage point three  previous times since February.
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, asked by reporters whether he thought  more Fed rate hikes were imminent, said, "I would hope it's a respite."
"But I don't predict" Fed moves, Bentsen said, carefully avoiding comment  on the independent agency.
Analysts speculated about how long the euphoria would last. Typically, an  increase in short-term interest rates does not boost the markets for long.
"Stocks and bonds should both follow through," said John Mueller of  Lehrman, Bell, Mueller, Cannon. "The Fed had gotten behind the markets,  (economic) growth is slowing down and the Fed has gotten ahead."
David Shulman, an analyst at Salomon Brothers, said the market would  climb, especially in the short run, because "the Fed is out of the way for a  while now."
Mueller added that Wall Street was "close to a cyclical peak."
Schroeder predicted a temporary downward correction from profit-taking.  Then the Dow, Wall Street's principal barometer, should rebound to as high as  3,750 points, he said.
"If things falter over the next few days we'll know it was a temporary  fire," Schroeder said.
In contrast, optimism on the currency market had already faded.
At 12:45 p.m. (1645 GMT), the dollar traded at 1.6576 German marks and  1.0362 yen, up from 1.6640 marks and 103.80 yen at the opening but down from  1.6720 marks and 104.55 yen late Tuesday.
A trader with a European bank in New York said the dollar showed little  reaction. "The dollar basically reached the same level as yesterday morning,"  he said.
A selloff was expected at the 1.6750-mark level, the trader said,  predicting that it would not top 1.6725 marks during the day. At the low end,  he said, central banks could intervene at the 1.6620-mark level to support the  greenback.
Mueller, noting improvement in US-Japanese trade talks, said the dollar  should remain above 100 yen.
But he predicted it would weaken against the German mark, because  fundamental figures -- such as rising inflation in the United States and  declining inflation in Germany, where an economic recovery is just emerging --  were favoring the mark.
"This combined shift is enough to compensate more than the interest rate  differential," he said.
