Palestinian Moslem fundamentalists shot dead a  Jewish settler and his mother-in-law and seriously wounded her daughter in an  ambush Tuesday near Hebron on the occupied West Bank, military officials said.
Ezzedin al Kassam, armed wing of the Islamic Resistance Movement (HAMAS),  claimed responsibility for the killings.
"This operation comes as an immediate response to the injuring of  Palestinian civilians in Hebron by Israeli soldiers yesterday," the group said  in a communique.
"We will respond to all Israeli attacks on unarmed civilians by attacking  settlers."
Kassam, which is fighting on against occupation despite the Gaza-Jericho  autonomy deal, said it would attack only military targets if the Israelis  stopped shooting civilians, dismantled settlements and disarmed settlers.
Gunmen raked a passing car with automatic weapons close to Haggai  settlement in the first killing of Israelis since the May 4 accord to  implement self-rule in the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho.
Rafael Kofenberg, 36, from Kiryat Arba, and his mother-in-law Margalit  Shohat, 48, died on the spot. Her daughter Yael, 21, took a bullet in the  head. The women were from Maale Levona settlement, between Jerusalem and  Nablus.
The army launched a manhunt for the gunmen who fled in a Peugeot, which  was later found burnt-out in Hebron.
Deputy Defence Minister Motta Gur said "terrorists" wanted "to sabotage  the peace process ... but in the end they will have no choice but to negotiate  with us."
Meanwhile in Nablus, also on the West Bank, troops opened fire on  stone-throwers leaving one man critically injured with a bullet in his head,  Palestinian sources said.
The 23-year-old Palestinian was taken to hospital as confrontations  continued.
The killings south of Hebron came after 17 Palestinians were wounded in  clashes with settlers and troops on Monday in the town, which has remained a  flashpoint since the February 25 massacre of 30 Moslems by a Jewish extremist.
The latest deaths brought to 224 the number of Israelis murdered by  Palestinians since the start of the intifada or uprising in December 1987,  according to an AFP toll.
The last killing of an Israeli dated back to April 21 when a soldier's  dead body was found in annexed East Jerusalem.
Environment Minister Yossi Sarid commented that the clashes in Hebron  showed that peaceful coexistence between Israelis and Palestinians was all but  impossible.
"The incidents prove once again that coexistence is complicated, dangerous  and apparently impossible. The government will soon have to look again at the  decision to allow settlers to remain in Hebron," he said.
According to an army inquiry, about 30 armed settlers from the nearby  hardline settlement of Kyriat Arba went into Hebron on foot and were stoned.
At least two opened fire. Then when troops arrived and were also stoned,  they too fired on the crowd.
International observers stationed in Hebron to try to improve security for  the Palestinians in the aftermath of the mosque massacre said they were also  carrying out an inquiry into the shootings.
More than 400 Jews have settled in the middle of Hebron, home to about  120,000 Palestinians, and site of the Tomb of the Patriarchs, which is holy in  Judaism and Islam alike.
