Cannes festival-goers received a sobering  reminder of the world beyong the glitz of the Croisette Sunday, when the  horrors of war in Bosnia were brought to the Festival Palace.
"Bosna!" by French philosopher Bernard-Henri Levy, pulls no punches in its  use of amateur video and audio material to depict the last two-and-a-half  years in the war-torn ex-Yugoslav republic.
The documentary includes a good deal of footage which would clearly have  been censored on television, and is accompanied by an unashamedly polemical  commentary by Levy.
But Levy, a high-profile campaigner for intervention to halt Serb  aggression in ex-Yugoslavia since early on in the war, staunchly defends his  right to bring such shocking images to the world's biggest filmfest.
"The Bosnians filmed everything, one must know that ... It is like a book  of the dead ... Open the book they told us. You would rather look away? Look  somewhere else? What a a mistake. The images were made for you.
"If the West seen them, it will be as thought they are opening the death  pits with us -- it will be as though they are helping put a face back on the  dead, giving them the identity they have lost."
At one point Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic is seen looking down the  barrel of guns firing from the hills around Sarajevo, shaking hands with local  military commanders.
In another scene his military commander General Ratko Mladic is heard  laughing while delivering orders by radio for snipers to begin shooting on  refugees fleeing part of the town.
One of the most harrowing scenes in the two-hour documentary shows a truck  being ambushed on Sarajevo's Sniper's Alley, a main avenue. As its driver runs  for cover of neighbouring buildings, snipers began taking pot shots at him.
The sequence does not end with the driver safe and sound. The camera  focuses in as the man is shot once, then again, then again, his face a vision  of panic and agony.
The documentary, appearing in the "Un Certain Regard" section of the  festival, is strongly critical of western inaction in Bosnia, in particular  attacking French President Francois Mitterrand.
Initial reaction after the preview screening of the film was largely  positive. "It is shocking, but I think it had to be made," said one critic  emerging on to the Croisette.
Levy's justification for his film, which receives its public premiere  Sunday evening, is simple. "Do not hide anything. You owe it to the dead. You  owe it to the survivors," he says.
Director Alain Ferrari, asked whether the film could be termed a  documentary given its clear political slant, replied: "I believe in points of  view, so long as they are documented of course.
"I believe in films that say "I," that say "us." I believe in committed  films."
mt/hn
W1341 15Mai94
