Denmark has protested to the United Nations  about a refusal to provide close air support for the Nordic battalion under  attack by Bosnian Serbs at Tuzla airport, Defence Minister Hans Haekkerup said  here Thursday.
Ritzau news agency said the minister, fired by Tuesday's latest incident,  complained about "excuses and reservations" among the UN Protection Force  command in Bosnia which he said had occurred many times in recent months.
"It is not for the fun of it that the Danish commanding officer on the  ground asks for NATO planes to intervene," Haekkerup said. "He is within his  rights to have that backing when the life of his soldiers is in danger."
The minister announced the protest after the head of parliament's foreign  affairs committee Peter Duetoft called for such a move to protest lack of  protection for the UN force's Nordic contingents.
The statement came amid controversy over Tuesday's NATO response to  Bosnian Serb shelling of Tuzla airport in northeastern Bosnia just after a UN  plane landed there. Tuzla is one of six UN-protected zones in Bosnia.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation sent in warplanes to buzz the area  but they did not open fire.
UN Protection Force spokesman in Zagreb, Michael Williams, insisted  Thursday that there had been no request to UN special envoy Yasushi Akashi for  "close air support" in the wake of the shelling.
"There was no request for close air support. General Rose reviewed and  assessed the situation and decided against making any request for close air  support," said Williams. Lieutenant-General Sir Michael Rose is the UNPROFOR  chief in Bosnia.
Williams also denied a charge by the Danish deputy commander of the Nordic  battalion, Lars Moeller, who said that a US bomber "locked on" to a Serb tank  which was shelling Tuzla on Tuesday, but did not open fire.
Williams said that NATO records showed that "the plane did not lock on the  tank. The pilot apparently saw the tank, but the tank was actually not engaged  and had not been engaged in the firing on the airport."
Asked about Denmark's demand for the creation of a NATO exclusion zone  around Tuzla, similar to that around the Bosnian capital Sarajevo, Williams  said that following Tuesday's incident, "the situation in Tuzla is under  review."
In an interview with the Danish daily Det Fri Aktuelt, Moeller said that  "it is the fifth time in three months that Nordic troops have been refused air  protection against Serb attacks.
"We are used to being fired on, but when artillery shells fall 40 metres  (yards) from us, as was the case on Tuesday, we think that our life is in  danger."
He added: "the UN's lack of resolve in ordering air support in fact means  the closure of Tuzla airport.
"The Serbs are not stupid, they know the UN procedures which consists in  reacting to an attack only if it persists. It is enough for them to lob two to  three shells at regular intervals to keep the airport closed."
A UN plane made two successful landings in Tuzla on Thursday, after  civilian pilots refused to go in on Wednesday following the Serb attacks.
