Anti-Israeli militants vowed to step up their fight  against Israel after commandos kidnapped a Moslem guerrilla chief in  Syrian-controlled eastern Lebanon to try to win back a missing Israeli airman.
Airborne Israeli commandos flew into the Bekaa Valley under cover of  darkness and snatched Mustafa Dirani, 46, from his home in Qsarnabaa in a  pre-dawn raid on Saturday.
The Iranian-backed Hezbollah said in a statement after the operation thast  the abduction "will not deter us from continuing to liberate our land whatever  the cost,"
Dirani's kidnapping "proves once again that our nation has no other choice  but armed resistance. We must adopt this measure and create the largest  possible front against the occupation of our land and the terrorism aimed  against our people.
The abduction was also condemned by Lebanon's Shiite leaders who denounced  it as a "terrorist act" which violated international law.
Israel holds Dirani responsible for the capture of Israeli airman Ron Arad  whose F-14 fighter jet was shot down over south Lebanon in 1986 during a  bombing raid of a Palestinian refugee camp.
Israeli sources said Dirani once led the underground Oppressed on Earth  organisation which claimed responsibility for abducting and executing around  10 Lebanese Jews in 1985-1986.
A former chief of security in the pro-Syrian Amal militia, Dirani now  heads the pro-Iranian "Resistance of the Faithful".
He is the second Moslem fundamentalist abducted by Israelis in Lebanon  since Sheikh Abdek Karim Obeid was snatched in an almost identical operation  from his south Lebanon home in 1989.
The Hezbollah statement added: "This crime shows that there is no safe  place in Lebanon. The Zionist danger threatens us all.
"From now on it is therefore necessary to consider all Lebanese regions  zones of confrontation, where the people will always resist the Jewish  menace," the statement added.
Meanwhile Sheikh Mohammed Mehdi Shamsaddin, president of the Supreme  Islamic Council of Lebanon's Shiite community, called on the UN Security  Council and civil rights groups to secure Dirani's release.
The operation dealt a painful blow to Lebanon and Syria and gave Israel a  possible key to securing Arad's release and gaining information about five   other soldiers missing since 1982 and believed to be dead.
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said Dirani had been abducted to gain  valuable information and not to be traded.
Syria, which deploys 35,000 troops in Lebanon apart from an Israeli-held  security zone in the south, controls the Bekaa while the Lebanese army has an  air base and a barracks near Dirani's home village.
The official Syrian agency SANA condemned the kidnapping as an "act of  piracy."
An Israeli government source said the operation had been authorised at a  special meeting of the inner cabinet on Thursday and proposed by the chief of  staff and intelligence services.
"This flawless, very bold and pinpoint operation allowed us to seize a man  who is very dangerous for Israel. It shows our army has a long reach and can  do the impossible to retrieve our missing," Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said.
Two helicopters were used in the operation at Qsarnabaa, 75 kilometers (45  miles) northeast of Beirut, that coincided with the most important Moslem  feast of Al-Adha, the Lebanese army said.
Israeli military sources said Dirani had been taken to Israel and was  being kept in an undisclosed hideout.
It is hoped Dirani, who has close links to Hezbollah, will confirm whether  Arad is being held by Iranian Revolutionary Guards, the Pasdarans.
Iran has denied holding Arad, but Amal leader Nabih Berry, now the speaker  of parliament, charged four years ago that Dirani had sold Arad to Iran for  half a million dollars.
Hezbollah spearheads attacks on an Israeli-occupied "security zone" in  southern Lebanon, jointly held by Israeli troops and its local militia allies.
Hezbollah is the only Lebanese group which has not been disarmed since the  end of Lebanon's 1975-1990 war.
The government recognises its right to "resist" occupation in the south  but has warned against a military presence elsewhere.
