Premier Li Peng has warned the United States not  to interfere in China's internal affairs, accusing Washington of focusing on  the welfare of only a "tiny number" of Chinese people, reports said Tuesday.
Li maintained China's tough stance in a meeting here Monday with former US  national security advisor Zbigniew Brzesinski, just weeks before US President  Bill Clinton must decide whether China has made sufficient progress in human  rights to retain its most favoured nation (MFN) trade status.
Without referring directly to the United States, Li said Beijing "will  never allow any other country to attempt to interfere in China's internal  affairs and detract China from its own road of development," the China Daily  said.
"Foreign statesmen will surely make mistakes in their decision-making if  they base their understanding of China merely on the words or views of a tiny  number of Chinese to the ignorance of the interests and wishes of all other  Chinese people," Li said.
Clinton must decide by June 3 whether to renew China's MFN status, after  last year linking 1994's renewal to Beijing making "significant overall  progress" in improving its human rights record.
China has condemned the linkage between trade and human rights.
Clinton is under intense pressure from US businessmen to renew MFN, but  international human rights organisations say Beijing has made no progress in  improving the overall human rights situation in China.
Despite gestures to Washington in recent weeks -- such as the release on  medical parole of 1989 democracy movement leaders Wang Juntao and Chen Ziming  from 13-year terms -- the authorities have continued to arrest other prominent  dissidents, including Wei Jingsheng.
Wei was detained in April after being released on parole in September six  months short of a 15-year sentence for "counter-revolutionary" crimes and is  now awaiting trial on new charges.
Brzesinski, officially in Beijing for a "conference," expressed his  optimism for improvements in Sino-US relations in the long-term, saying that  this would be good for both countries, the China Daily said.
