Iran on Monday cancelled an anti-US rally by its  pilgrims in the Moslem holy city of Mecca after Saudi security forces  surrounded their camp, television announced here.
Saudi authorities warned last week that they would not allow Iranian  pilgrims to carry out their demonstrations in Mecca, home to Islam's holiest  sites.
The head of the Iranian pilgrimage delegation, Mohammad Mohammadi  Reyshahri, said in a message to spiritual guide Ayatollah Ali Khamenei that  the demonstration should be cancelled "following the deployment of Saudi  police and soldiers and irresponsible acts and provocation by the Saudi  authorities."
Khamenei replied by saying he agreed that the demonstration be cancelled,  the television said.
The Iranian news agency IRNA reported that commando units, equipped with  grenade-launchers and machine-guns, arrived in eight buses in the early hours  on Monday and were stationed in front of the camp, where the "deliverance from  the infidels" demonstration was to be held on Tuesday.
The police also prevented cars belonging to Iranian pilgrims and  organisers from entering the camp's parking lot, "even those with diplomatic  licence plates," IRNA said.
The siege followed a prayer meeting in the pilgrimage quarter in  solidarity with the Moslem people in Bosnia late Sunday, it said.
Saudi police had taken down several Iranian flags placed on the roof of  the pilgrimage quarters.
On Sunday, an Iranian religious organisation urged all Moslems making the  pilgrimage in Mecca to defy a Saudi ban and take part in the demonstration.
"We call on all pilgrims, especially politically-aware Iranians, to take  part in the demonstration as in previous years to foil the plots of enemies of  Islam," the Islamic Propagation Organisation said in a statement.
The Mecca gathering is the "best opportunity and Mecca the best place for  Moslems to express their hatred of the infidels, notably the United States and  Israel," it added.
Reyshahri has told the pilgrims that holding the rally was a "religious  must" and that everyone should participate.
Similar demonstrations triggered clashes with Saudi police in previous  years, the most violent being in 1987, when 400 pilgrims, including 275  Iranians, were killed.
Diplomatic ties between the two countries were broken off for three years  afterwards.
The annual Moslem pilgrimage this year is to start on Friday in Mecca, the  birthplace of the prophet Mohammad.
