Croatia Monday celebrated the fourth anniversary of  the end of communist rule by issuing a controversial new currency and reviving  debate over the country's pro-fascist past.
President Franjo Tudjman also inaugurated a massive structure, built on  the remains of a medieval fortress, named the Altar of the Croatian Homeland  -- dubbed "vulgar" and "pharaonic" by the opposition press.
The altar was inaugurated in the presence of Roman Catholic Cardinal  Franjo Kuharic and ambassadors from the five permanent member countries of the  UN Security Council.
The construction was dedicated to "those who lived, suffered and died for  a free Croatia."
The events were staged to mark the fourth anniversary of the first meeting  of the Croatian parliament after multi-party elections ousted Croatia's ruling  communists and brought Tudjman's Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) to power.
A year later, Croatia split from the Yugoslav federation and by the start  of 1992 won recognition by the international community.
The fighting that broke out with the Serb-dominated Yugoslav army left  14,000 people dead or missing in Croatia and thousands more injured.
A quarter of Croatian territory remains under the control of the  secessionist Serbs in the Krajina region, whose leaders in March agreed a  ceasefire with the authorities in Zagreb.
The controversy over the new currency, the kuna, stems from its own  history as the currency first used by the pro-Nazi Ustashe regime under Ante  Pavlic, which ruled Croatia from 1941 to 1945.
Tudjman, who chose the controversial name, presided over a mid-day  ceremony at the cental bank to bring the kuna into circulation, replacing the  Croatian dinar.
The nationalist leader has brushed aside criticism, notably from  opposition forces and the Jewish and Serbian communities in the former  Yugoslav republic who view the new currency as an affront to their communities.
In Croatian, kuna means marten, whose fur -- according to historians --  served as a unit of exchange in the Middle Ages.
In an interview Saturday, Tudjman noted that neither Germany nor Italy had  re-named the mark and or lira, both of which were in circulation during World  War II.
But the reappearance of the currency has revived the fears of rampamt  Croatian nationalism.
Nailing his colours firmly to the nationalist mast, Tudjman last week  threatened to refuse to renew the mandate of the UN Protection Force which  expires at the end of September, and to "liberate by force the occupied  territory" if Croatia's Serbs do not accept reintegration into Croatia.
The reintergration would allow the progressive return to Krajina of some  250,000 non-Serb Croatians who fled the area, he said.
Tudjman's increasingly nationalist stance has infuriated the opposition  which has accused him of manipulating parliament, the courts and the press.
Tudjamn has denounced newspapers "for writing whatever they want, which is  shameful" and courts for taking decisions "without my knowledge."
