French Transport Minister Bernard  Bosson on Friday threw down the gauntlet to British airlines planning to break  the French stranglehold on flights into Paris' Orly airport next week.
British Airways, Air UK and TAT airlines say they will ignore France's  refusal to allow them to use the busy international airport south of Paris and  will launch services between London and Orly on Monday, as permitted by a  European Commission ruling.
But French transport ministry sources underlined that without an accepted  flight plan, no pilot can take off without violating international regulations  and endangering his passengers' lives.
And Bosson raised the temperature Friday saying "the resulting  consequences for the passengers will be the sole responsibility of the  airlines, so let's make a date for Monday.
"We cannot accept that aircraft turn up like that, any old how, without a  minimum number of rules," he said in this western town. "I am sure that we  will find a solution and that this will take a few weeks."
However, he also attempted to play down the dispute, which he dismissed as  a "storm in a teacup," adding that the row had grown to "ridiculous  proportions."
The government had decided to open Orly-London up to British carriers but  had to settle certain technical, safety and environmental concerns, including  apron congestion.
In a "very gentle" reminder to Britain, Bosson said, "yes, we are going to  open up Orly. But we, who find ourselves in the dock, would like to see  Britain make the same effort to open up Heathrow," Britain's busiest airport.
The British airlines, backed by their government, are insisting they are  entitled to start flights to Orly next week in line with a European Union  ruling ordering France to open three domestic routes to competition:  Orly-London, Orly-Toulouse and Orly-Marseilles.
British Airways (BA) has said: "We have the rights and the slots, and we  will be starting our first London-to-Orly flights on Monday." The British  government has expressed its "full support" for the airline.
In London, a Civil Aviation Authority spokesman noted that the easiest way  in practice for the French to prevent BA and other airlines from serving Orly  was to reject the flight plan, which every pilot has to submit an hour before  takeoff.
The first scheduled flight to Orly is due to leave Heathrow airport at  6:50 a.m. (0550 GMT) Monday and arrive in Paris an hour later.
Foreign competition through Orly is also seen as a threat to the  loss-making national carrier Air France and its domestic subsidiary Air Inter.  Unions at Air Inter have called a strike for Tuesday in protest over the  opening of the routes.
The routes through Orly are coveted by foreign companies because all  domestic French flights leave from the airport.
Last year, 9.7 million passengers used the Orly-Sud international part of  the terminal while 15.7 million passed through Orly-Ouest, reserved for the  domestic carrier Air-Inter.
French analysts believe British airlines are keen to capture the estimated  half a million French passengers who use Air Inter each year to fly to Paris  to catch a foreign connection.
A transport ministry source said the French government was eager above all  to negotiate a reciprocity agreement with Britain before opening Orly to  British aircraft, as the European Commission has ordered.
Air France and Air Outremer have filed applications to use Heathrow  airport in London which were rejected on grounds that the airport was already  too congested.
Until now, all flights to London from Paris have left from Roissy-Charles  de Gaulle airport, flying to four London airports: Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted  and London City Airport.
