Just as Switzerland began their final preparations  for their first World Cup in 28 years a sex-scandal engulfed the squad.
A Swiss newspaper report that manager Roy Hodgson had banned his players  from having sex throughout the 1994 World Cup finals provoked a storm of  controversy, with no less a personage than Pele joining in the debate.
The 47-year-old English manager, who has since relaxed the ban, was  astounded by the response.
"It's just a lot of nonsense," he said. "There is nothing to it at all.  Our players will be with their wives for two weekends before we leave for the  US.
"Then, like every team, we'll be busy preparing for our first game. It is  amazing to me how much attention this rubbish received."
But since Hodgson took the lowly Swiss to their first World Cup finals  since 1966, his every move and those of his players have been the subject of  attention, even adulation in Switzerland.
"The team now is incredibly popular, even to the level of hero worship,"  he said. "It puts pressure on us because we don't want to let people down.  It's like the American basketball Dream Team in the Barcelona Olympics:  Expectations are very high.
"We're nowhere near the Dream Team in terms of our abilities, but we've  built up people's hopes in the same way."
The Swiss open against the United States on June 18 in the Silverdome in  Detroit, Michigan.
Switzerland played a 1-1 draw with the United States earlier this year.  Since then they have beaten Mexico 5-1, Hungary 2-1 and Czechoslovakia 3-0.
Hodgson still says they are underdogs against the Americans and the other  Group A teams, Romania and Colombia.
As well as facing the hosts in their opener, the Swiss will be playing in  the first indoor World Cup match ever, and they will be kicking off at 11:30  a.m. to suit US television demands.
"There are a lot of uncertain factors," Hodgson said. "Nearly 30 years of  absence from the top level will be difficult to hide, but we're all allowed to  dream and we do have a glimmer of hope."
He also admits that when the team discuss their prospects, they don't rule  out the possibility of reaching the semi-finals, or even the final.
