Share prices here were mainly stable in early  trading on Friday as the market showed a cautious recovery before a long  weekend which will see markets closed in Britain and the US until Tuesday  morning.
By mid morning in London, the FT-SE 100 index had risen by 4.7 points to  3,1024.4 points. In Paris, the CAC 40 index rose by 0.38 percent to 2,099.89  points.
A study showing British companies reported the highest monthly level of  factory orders for five years in May and a report from the Confederation of  British Industry (CBI) upwardly revising its growth projections for Britain  for this year and next, lifted sentiment.
The price of shares in the De La Rue security printing company rose by 34  pence to 863 after the company announced that it had dropped plans to make a  takover bid for banknote paper supplier Portals. The price of Portals fell by  110 pence to 655 pence.
Eurotunnel, which fell seven pence on Thursday after the announcement of  its rights issue, rose 10 pence to 358.
Pilkington was up one pence at 189 after news that it had agreed with the  US justice department to relax its licence technology policy in float glass.
Construction stocks were higher, with Redland up 12 pence at 507 and RMC  up 10 pence at 907 after positive comment from Redland's annual meeting on  Thursday on increasing margins.
In Paris, shares were marginally higher in technical trading as the market  recovered from falls midweek.
June futures on the Matif rose 0.22 percent to 119.64.
Shares looked generally attractive to investors on Friday after sharp  falls midweek, with Eurotunnel leading the field after its rights issue was  generally well received by analysts.
The Indosuez bank estimated that the price of Eurotunnel shares should be  around 40 French francs. Shares rose 1.8 percent to 31.50 French francs.
Banque Colbert rose four percent, while Castorama firmed by 3.8 percent as  market rumours forecast that the group was planning a rights issue to takeover  another group in this do-it-yourself sector.
Geophysique declined three percent and Matra-Hachette was two percent  lower.
