Rival troops in Yemen's civil war squared  up for a major battle for control of a key southern base near Aden Sunday, as  northern leaders pressed on for a military victory over the south.
Southern troops Sunday prepared artillery defences around Markula, a  mountain village about 80 kilometres (50 miles) from Aden, to block a northern  advance on the huge Al-Anad military base further south.
Nearly all the inhabitants of Markula and nearby villages had fled south  toward Aden.
The commander of the Al-Anad base, 50 kilometres (31 miles) from the  southern port city, said the battle would "last a long time."
"Our army is fighting a defensive war. The northern army has taken the  initiative in the conflict and is advancing on several fronts, but they  haven't made a decisive breakthrough."
The Al-Anad base, stretching over several square kilometres, "is the  (southern) joint command centre for all the military fronts," said the  officer, who asked not to be named.
Some 20,000 southern troops were based there, he said. Al-Anad is also a  major air force base.
It was at the gateway to Aden, stronghold of southern leader Ali Salem  al-Baid, the Soviet-trained officer explained, "and that's why (President) Ali  Abdallah Saleh wants to seize it at all costs."
In the past few hours Saleh's commanders had sent two brigades to the  Kirsh front, 40 kilometres (25 miles) from Al-Anad, and three to Daleh, a  strategic town close to the old pre-unification border, which fell to northern  troops after several days of bitter fighting last week.
Three northern brigades were sent to Kharaz, a region west of Aden near  the strategic Bab al-Mandeb Straits, gateway to the Red Sea, and three more to  the Abyan region just east of Aden, the officer said.
A military spokesman in Sanaa confirmed that northern forces "are  continuing their advance to smash through the defences around Al-Anad."
Meanwhile an Arab League delegation visiting Sanaa failed to broker a  ceasefire as the civil war entered its eleventh day.
The delegation was received by Abdel Aziz Abdel Ghani, member of the  collective presidency, who said northern leaders would back a ceasefire only  if "war criminal" Baid surrendered and if the constitutional legitimacy of  Saleh's government was recognised.
Baid, the Yemeni vice president, was stripped of his functions in the  first days of the fighting.
Although southern officials in Aden have called on the Arab League to step  in to end the fighting, so far northern leaders have ruled out any foreign  intervention in the civil war, which they consider an "internal matter."
They rejected Friday a southern peace plan which called for an immediate  ceasefire and the establishment of a national unity government.
The conservative North and formerly Marxist South Yemen united in May 1990  after long and delicate negotiations, but a simmering feud between Saleh and  Baid erupted into full-scale war on May 5.
Official Sanaa Radio said northern forces were advancing on all fronts and  "inflicting heavy losses" on Baid's army.
The radio, monitored by the BBC, said Saleh's troops had pounded  fortifications near Al-Anad, and were moving from the Kharaz area east toward  the Salah-al-Din camp.
"They seized large quantities of hardware, vehicles ... and a marine radar  station," it said.
On Saturday two SS-20 missiles fired toward the Al-Anad base fell in the  desert.
The base is hidden from the road behind sand banks and heavily defended by  anti-aircraft guns.
A Scud missile fired by southern forces exploded in a vineyard on the  outskirts of Sanaa late Saturday, but there were no casualties. It was the  20th Scud to be fired at the capital.
At least 25 civilians were killed when a Scud slammed into a  densely-populated area of Sanaa at dawn Wednesday.
