Fierce artillery battles between rebels and  government troops on Friday rocked the central Angolan town of Kuito on  Friday, official radio reported.
The firing began on Thursday in the town of some 200,000, where control is  divided between government forces and rebels of the National Union for the  Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), the radio said.
Security was "fragile" for the people of Kuito, UN medical and food aid  coordinator Manuel Aranda da Silva stated on Friday. No details were given of  casualties in the fighting.
During a battle for the town, the capital of Bie province, last year more  than 25,000 people were killed.
Aid officials meanwhile said relief flights planned to the northern town  of Malanje had been called off Friday because of renewed shelling. A UN  spokesman had earlier said that Malanje was "calm" and that 11 flights there  were scheduled for the day.
At the height of renewed civil war last year, about 100 people were dying  daily in Malanje.
The Angolan government Friday an official statement said here.
The Angolan government on Friday lifted a ban on some relief flights which  it had imposed in reprisals for an attack on a UN World Food Programme plane a  week ago as it was landing at Malanje.
It said the United Nations could resume flights to the northern town of  Uige and the rebel-controlled central highlands city of Huambo.
The government said that, through the United Nations, it had received  assurances from UNITA that planes would not be attacked.
The government had also accused UNITA of looting UN food warehouses in  Huambo, the country's second city and rebel stronghold.
Angola plunged back into civil war after UNITA lost UN-supervised general  elections in September 1992.
In other developments, President Jose Eduardo dos Santos told a meeting  Friday of representatives of professional bodies that the government had to  maintain "military pressure" on UNITA to persuade them to "abandon the war."
On renewed, internationally-mediated peace talks under way since November,  on and off, in the Zambian capital Lusaka, Dos Santos said he hoped for a  solution "as soon as possible."
But he also pointed to a number of what he called "difficult tasks" to  resolve, which included the eventual status of UNITA leader Jonas Savimbi, the  re-establishment of state control over all Angolan territory, and the  structure of a joint politico-military commission to replace the body that was  dissolved last year amid renewed warfare.
The commission included representatives of the Angolan army, UNITA and the  three nations that underwrote the country's initial, failed peace settlement  of May 1991 -- Russia, the United States and former colonial power Portugal.
Dos Santos also said he had written to US President Bill Clinton to give  him "concrete guarantees (of scrupulous) adherence" to any peace accord that  came out of the talks in Lusaka."
He said he wished to run the country on the basis of a "minimum of  consensus" after consultations with representatives of all parties in the  civilian opposition.
