Bosnia's warring factions will meet Wednesday in the  French town of Talloires with a contact group trying to restart the Bosnian  peace process, a French diplomatic source said Wednesday.
The source said that the Moslem-led Bosnian government would be  represented by Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic and the Serbs by the speaker of  their self-proclaimed parliament, Momcilo Krajisnic.
In Zagreb, radio reports said Kresimir Zubak, the top Bosnian Croat  leader, planned to attend the talks.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe earlier announced that the contact  group would meet in Talloires, in the French alps, but he did not mention that  the warring factions would attend the meeting.
The contact group, which includes experts from the European Union, Russia,  the United States and the United Nations, is attempting to define a common  stand concerning Bosnia in order to press the warring factions there to end  the more than two-year conflict.
"If the parties involved don't want peace we will act accordingly," Juppe  said.
Earlier this month, foreign ministers from the contact group met in Geneva  and united in a bid to put the peace process back on track, by calling for a  four-month ceasefire and a resumption of peace talks.
They also urged the warring parties to reach agreement on the basis of a  European plan for the ethnic division of the former Yugoslavia, providing 51  percent of the territory for a Bosnian Croat-Moslem federation and 49 percent  for the Bosnian Serbs.
"This plan respects Bosnia's unity," Juppe said, adding that if it were  rejected by the warring parties, France would consider withdrawing its  peacekeeping troops from Bosnia by the end of the year.
Spain and Britain have also said they may pull their troops from the  war-torn country if there is no breakthrough in the peace process.
Juppe said members of the contact group did not plan to wait for an answer  to their proposal beyond mid-June when they are due to hold another  ministry-level meeting.
