The International Atomic Energy Agency admitted  failure Saturday in its attempts to monitor the refuelling of a nuclear  reactor in North Korea as Pyongyang defended the operation.
In Seoul the South Korean government called on the North to stop the  controversial refuelling at the five-megawatt Yongbyon reactor, warning that  the situation could degenerate into a crisis.
The IAEA issued a statement confirming that North Korea had refused to  allow its inspectors to check that no fuel was being diverted to make nuclear  weapons.
"The Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) rejected all IAEA  proposals put forward with the aim of maintaining the IAEA's ability to  select, segregate and secure fuel rods for later measurements so as to be able  to verify the history of the reactor core, specifically to verify whether this  is the first core," the statement said.
"The DPRK continued to maintain that it could not accept the IAEA  verification measures proposed.
It said two senior agency members who had travelled to North Korea would  return to Vienna Saturday, but that two other inspectors would remain behind  to further developments.
IAEA director general Hans Blix said earlier in a letter to UN Secretary  General Boutros Boutros-Ghali that North Korea had resumed refuelling at the  Yongbyon reactor, defying the international inspectors and making it  impossible to make a full accounting of weapons-grade fuel.
In Pyongyang, the North Korean Workers Party newspaper Rodong Sinmun on  Saturday defended the decision as necessary to prevent economic losses and  radioactive leakages.
It reaffirmed North Korea's "unique status" under which it said the  hardline communist state was not fully subject to safeguards inspections under  the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).
It said the country would never allow samplying of the fuel rods by the  IAEA "no matter what others say and what counter-action they may take."
In what was seen as a signal to Washington it added that "the most  reasonable solution" was to preserve "all the replaced fuel rods under the  surveillance of the agency and measure them when the nuclear problem is solved  in a package deal."
Pyongyang has sought an end to US-South Korean "Team Spirit" war games and  improved ties with the United States in exchange for cooperation in ending the  nuclear standoff.
In Seoul, the South Korean foreign ministry urged Pyongyang to immediately  stop removing the used fuel rods and "carry out its obligations related to  nuclear safeguards of the Non-Proliferation Treaty."
"The government expresses a deep regret and concern," the statement added,  which analysts said was unusually devoid of rhetoric.
Earlier the South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-Joo had called an  emergency meeeting of senior officials in the light of Blix's letter to  Boutros-Ghali.
At the meeting the officials discussed the North's moves and motives, but  decided not to make any comment until they had received a full report from the  IAEA.
Officials suspected the North might be using its usual strategy of  brinkmanship to draw the maximum concessions when it resumes high-level talks  with the United States.
But they also considered the possibility that the North was trying to  cover-up a nuclear-weapons development program, the Yonhap news agency  reported.
In New York, Ibrahim Gambari, the Nigerian ambassador who chairs the UN  Security Council this month, described the matter as "very serious and  delicate" and said council members would be holding consulations over the  weekend.
A US official said Washington was prepared to hold a third round of talks  with North Korea so long as it was still possible for the IAEA to confirm that  no plutonium had been diverted for weapons.
