Palace officials confirmed Monday that King  Norodom Sihanouk would leave Cambodia early for medical treatment in Beijing,  as the Khmer Rouge blasted proposals for western powers to arm government  forces.
The king was scheduled to return to China June 2 to resume treatment for  cancer but, in despair at his inability to end Cambodia's ongoing conflict, he  told journalists last week he was washing his hands of the situation and would  leave Wednesday.
Government officials said they believed the king might change his mind as  he has often used threats of retreat in the past to try to force compliance  with his wishes.
The officials said the king could use a mass pro-Sihanouk demonstration  planned for Tuesday as an excuse to change his mind.
But, in a statement released by the Royal Palace Monday, King Sihanouk  called on his "children and compatriots" to cancel the demonstration for fear  it would create political instability and further "complicate the problem that  we are trying to solve by peaceful means."
A government official said there were fears the Khmer Rouge would exploit  the demonstration to try and destabilise the government.
The king's offer to host "Round Table" peace talks -- which failed to get  off the ground here in early May -- between the government and the guerrillas   in Pyongyang at a future date still stands.
But the king himself said he was not at all optimistic about the outcome  of peace talks even if they were to take place, and accused the rebel faction  of being insincere after they expressed their support for the talks.
"They are just manoevering in order to deceive part of the nation that  they are peace-loving people."
Co-Premier Prince Norodom Ranariddh said Monday that the guerrillas had  yet to agree to the king's suggestion of a total ceasefire, which was a  precondition to the peace talks.
"We are ready for a ceasefire, we should show the people that we are  sincere, to demonstrate that we want peace," the prince said.
The Khmer Rouge blew up a bridge at Mongol Borey along National Route 5 in  northwest Cambodia Saturday, the prince said, but downplayed the attack as  "hit and run."
King Sihanouk has blamed the Khmer Rouge for holding up the development of  the country. "How can we rehabilitate the nation if we have to spend the  little money we have to still make war?" he said recently.
Military aid is needed "to save Cambodia from the yoke of the Khmer Rouge,  from genocide ... (and) maintain Cambodia as a liberal democracy and member of  the free world," King Sihanouk said.
In a statement released here Monday, Khmer Rouge nominal leader Khieu  Samphan lashed out at the idea of military aid and called on all Cambodians  "to stand up and take whatever action is necessary to vanquish the plan."
Prince Ranariddh said Monday that the government had requested military  support from western powers, but that "it was very sad that we have to  continue to talk about military assistance" given Cambodia's social and  economic needs.
Australian officials said Friday that Australia, the United States and  France -- as well as some Asian countries -- were discussing how to bolster  Phnom Penh's ill-disciplined and poorly equipped army.
Western diplomats here, however, said they were unaware of any formal  discussions between their governments on the question of military aid, adding  that the priority was to train the Cambodian army before aid was considered.
