In abandoning efforts to link China's trade  privileges to human rights, President Bill Clinton's new policy is aimed at  preserving strategic and economic interests in a region he sees as vital to  the United States.
Clinton's announcement Thursday that he would extend most favored nation  (MFN) status for China with only limited sanctions is an admission that his  policy of threatened reprisals against Beijing had failed.
In an effort to limit political damage from his decision, Clinton  maintained that he was changing tactics without modifying his strategy of  promoting human rights, and to make the point announced a ban on the import of  Chinese weapons and ammunition.
But some members of Clinton's own Democratic party found the decision  difficult to swallow. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California called the  decision "a victory for hard-liners in Beijing."
In the name of realism and pragmatism, Clinton was forced to follow the  policy of his Republican predecessor he vilified in his 1992 campaign.
Revoking MFN, which gives Chinese products the lowest duties available,  would have prompted retaliation from Beijing and penalized US companies while  benefitting firms from Europe and Japan.
Moreover revocation would have had enormous strategic consequences, even  though administration officials denied the decision was aimed at preserving  Chinese support in keeping pressure on North Korea to allow inspection of  nuclear facilities suspected of weapons development.
But national security adviser Anthony Lake acknowledged that the Chinese  veto power on the UN Security Council was a factor in devising a new policy on  China.
"Certainly issues like Korea, issues that come up at the UN, the Chinese  vote and veto at the UN, all of those things reinforce the importance of our  having a positive, constructive relationship with China," Lake said.
More generally, the Clinton administration is seeking to expand the  importance of Asia and the Pacific and is seeking to avoid a confrontation  with one of the regional powerhouses.
"I am persuaded that the best path for advancing freedom in China is for  the United States to intensify and broaden its engagement with that nation,"  Clinton said.
"I think we have to see our relations with China within the broader  context of our policies in the Asian Pacific region that, after all, includes  our own nation," added Clinton.
Within this context, renewal of MFN falls within the strategic, economic  and political interests of the United States, Clinton said.
Similarly, the Clinton administration began a more pragmatic approach this  week toward resolving a major trade dispute with Japan, the other economic  power in the region, backing away from the threat of tough sanctions.
The announcement of the opening of liaison offices with Vietnam in a move  toward establishing fuller ties is another sign that Clinton is looking to  Asia in an effort for greater cooperation and trade.
