New Zealand will send 250 infantry soldiers as  its first contribution to the United Nations Protection Force in former  Yugoslavia, Prime Minister Jim Bolger announced Tuesday.
The unit, which will be attached to a British battalion, amounts to around  10 percent of New Zealand combat ready troops and is the country's biggest  military commitment since the Vietnam War.
"This is not a decision the government has reached lightly, but I firmly  believe it is the right decision," Bolger told parliament.
The prime minister said New Zealand had special responsibilities as a  current member of the UN Security Council and as a founding member of the  United Nations.
He said the New Zealanders would face danger. "The nature of the conflicts  and the tasks undertaken by UNPROFOR make this unavoidable."
Bolger added: "Peacekeeping is no soft option in defence terms.
"We will take every care to minimize the risk to our personnel, but the  element of risk cannot be totally removed."
The force is to have six weeks training immediately in New Zealand and  would then leave for two weeks training in Britain before deployment in Bosnia.
The main opposition Labour Party said it supported the contribution.
"This is not New Zealand going to fight a European war, it is a New  Zealand contribution to maintaining peace," opposition leader Helen Clark  said.
"The government considers it important that New Zealand as a small member  state, strongly committed to the founding principles of the United Nations,  plays its part to the greatest extent possible of supporting and implementing  the decisions of the UN Security Council," the prime minister told MPs.
He said the size of the contribution was determined in order to meet  UNPROFOR requirements and to be as self-sufficient as possible.
"It would enjoy a distinctive national identity yet be readily integrated  into the larger British unit," Bolger said. "Satisfactory arrangements can be  established to ensure that New Zealand would retain full control of the New  Zealand contingent while operationally attached to a British battalion."
Thirty six other nations also contribute to UNPROFOR.
