Israel has offered to withdraw from the Golan  Heights in three phases in exchange for peace with Syria, which has shown keen  interest in the plan, The Washington Post said Wednesday.
Israel also wants international monitors and electronic devices installed  on the strategic plateau, and a demilitarized zone extending to neighboring  parts of Syria, unnamed officials involved in the mediation between Israel and  Syria told the daily.
Syria has responded with considerable interest prompting US Secretary of  State Warren Christopher's decision to return to Damascus on Wednesday  following talks in Israel, the officials said.
Christopher's ongoing shuttle diplomacy in the Middle East is aimed at  promoting a peace agreement between Israel and Syria over the Golan Heights,  which Israel occupied in the the 1967 Arab-Israeli war and annexed in 1981.
Although the Syrian President Hafez al-Assad has been demading a full  withdrawal from the Golan, Israeli officials said Damascus had shown more  flexibility lately, suggesting that it may accept an Israeli pullout over a  "reasonable" period.
The officials said Israel wants Syria to normalize relations -- exchanging  diplomats and trade -- during the first stage of the withdrawal from Golan.
On this point as with other issues including demilitarization, Israel and  Syria still do not see eye to eye, the official said.
Israel is seeking substantial military assistance from the United States  to compensate for the lost security that surrendering the Golan would entail.
US President Bill Clinton's national security adviser, Anthony Lake, said  Tuesday in Washington that his government was firmly committed to bolstering  Israeli security to help promote a withdrawal from the Golan Heights and a  peace accord with Syria.
"We will act decisively to bolster Israel's early warning capability and  ability to handle longer-range threats to compensate for strategic advantages  it may choose to give up for peace," Lake said.
