Prices on the London Metals Exchange (LME) were  little changed on Monday against a background of profit taking, dealers said.
On Friday the price of copper had risen to a 14-month high and nickel to a  16-month high.
Copper closed 1.5 dollars lower at 2,178. It had been higher during the  day but then gave way to profit taking.
Traders said that the market was increasingly wary of a technical  correction after the strong gains made in the last two or three trading days.
"Copper is still technically very overbought, which in some ways is  proving just how strong the market is," said William Adams, analyst at Rudolf  Wolff.
"I would look for a pull-back to 2,100 dollars or even 2,060, but I think  any correction will be short-lived as there are a lot of people out there who  I suspect feel they have missed the boat," he added.
The red metal has risen significantly as the prospects of increased demand  in Europe and the US, combined with the lower stocks, push the metal up.
Nickel closed 10 dollars lower at 6,360 dollars per tonne, as the metal  remained buoyed by the prospects of a strike at Canadian producer Inco's  Sundbury division where the current labor contract is set to expire at the end  of this month.
The market believes Inco has the ability to continue nickel deliveries for  only three weeks in the event of industrial action.
Lead and zinc were higher after figures from the International Lead and  Zinc Study Group supported the market's initially stronger tone.
Although refined zinc production was virtually unchanged in the first  quarter of 1994 at 1.381 million tonnes compared with the same period a year  ago, the steady down-trend in mined production continued with a 6.8 percent  year-on-year decline to 1.266 million tonnes in the first quarter.
"Within the complex zinc has one of the worst set of current fundamentals  but great-looking future fundamentals," said Adams.
Continued falls in mined production are eventually expected to impact the  refined market as smelters run short of feed.
Zinc was up 25 dollars at 1,004 dollars per tonne, at a four month high,  while lead closed six dollars higher at 505 dollars per tonne.
Aluminium was unchanged at 1,353 dollars per tonne and tin was 85 dollars  higher at 5,655 dollars per tonne.
