Troops loyal to Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh   have captured the key town of Daleh, north of Aden, after several days of  fierce fighting, correspondents said Saturday.
Local and foreign journalists taken to Daleh, which lies 90 kilometres (55  miles) from the southern stronghold of Aden, confirmed it was held by northern  troops.
Fighting was reported to be going on south of the strategic town, as  northern troops continued their push towards Aden.
Northern officials, who said Friday they had captured Daleh, said Saturday  they had seized the town of Al-Musaymir, further south and only 30 kilometres  (18 miles) from the southern air base at Al-Anad.
Independent sources said fighting was going on close to Al-Musaymir  Saturday with tank and artillery reinforcements deployed in the area to  bolster the north's forces.
Southern forces were trying to repel the advance by launching air raids on  northern positions, the sources in Aden said.
With the loss of Daleh, the south stepped up efforts to end the fighting  calling Saturday for the Arab League to intervene in the 10-day-old war  between rival northern and southern troops, Aden Radio said.
Late Friday northern leaders rejected a seven-point peace plan put forward  by the southern Yemen Socialist Party as "nothing new."
Aden radio said the Council for the Coordination between Parties and the  Masses, Organizations and Nationalists in Aden had sent a message to the  League urging it to protect "towns and citizens against all acts of  aggression."
The League should intervene to see that a reconciliation accord signed in  Amman in February between the two parties is implemented, added the radio,  monitored by the BBC.
An Arab League delegation has been in Yemen since Thursday trying to  broker a ceasefire between Saleh and his southern rival, ousted vice-president  Ali Salem al-Baid.
They hope to deliver a call from the League's secretary general, Esmat  Abdel Meguid, for an immediate ceasefire.
A northern spokesman in Sanaa said the meeting was finally likely to take  place on Saturday.
Earlier southern military officials said their warplanes were mounting raid  after raid on the Daleh region, where correspondents saw seven northern  soldiers dead on the side of the road, just five kilometres (three miles) from  the village.
Hundreds of residents have fled Daleh and surrounding villages, seeking  safety in Aden.
Clashes were also taking place in the Abyan region, east of Aden, but  fighting had eased in Kharaz, on the coast 120 kilometres (75 miles) to the  west of the city.
The ruler of Bahrain, Emir Issa ibn Salman al-Khalifa, Saturday joined the  ceasefire calls and urged Yemen's rival leaders "to allow reason to prevail."
The south's ceasefire plan on Friday called for the creation of a national  unity government, prisoners releases and for the right of political parties to  be recognised.
But Sanaa repeated demands for the surrender of southern leaders, accusing  them of seeking partition, four years after former North and South Yemen were  unified in May 1990.
In the latest evacuation of foreigners from the war-torn country, more  than 200 nationals of the former Soviet Union arrived Saturday in Moscow on a  flight out of Moscow, the Russian news agency ITAR-TASS said.
The Philippines foreign ministry said at least 619 Filipinos, including 40  children and six pregnant women, were still waiting evacuation from Yemen.
