Israel on Monday demanded a written promise from  PLO leader Yasser Arafat that he would respect their autonomy agreements after  another row broke out over a speech he made in a Johannesburg mosque.
The Palestinians fired back, saying that he had been misinterpreted and  had nothing to explain.
The radio had already triggered a furore last week when it broadcast an  extract of the May 10 speech in which Arafat, in South Africa for Nelson  Mandela's inauguration as president, called for a "jihad" or holy war to  recapture Jerusalem.
This time it played a section in which he said "an agreement can be made  with the enemy and then broken as soon as possible."
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, who had described Arafat's explanation of  the jihad comment as "evasive," this time wanted the PLO leader to reply in  writing, the premier's spokeswoman Lynda Shimon said.
Rabin was seeking a written pledge that "the PLO will adhere to the  (autonomy) agreement signed in Cairo" along with the September 13 Declaration  of Principles and the mutual recognition accord, she said.
Shimon said the chief Israeli negotiator of the May 4 Cairo accord,  General Amnon Shahak, passed on the demand to his Palestinian counterpart,  Nabil Shaath, on Sunday.
A senior cabinet official who requested anonymity told AFP: "The man has  lost his head and we had no other choice than to ask him for such a letter."
Environment Minister Yossi Sarid warned that Israel "will not continue the  autonomy negotiations unless Arafat retracts his comments" and said the  remarks had triggered a "serious crisis of confidence."
Arafat spoke in English, but used the Arabic name for the pact, "solh  al-hodaibiya," or a tactical ceasefire.
"It's an Islamic legal precedent regarding any agreement between the  Islamic world and infidels," he explained.
Ahmad Tibi, Arafat's political advisor, said his statements had been  "distorted."
"There is no need to clarify his position. There is an agreement which  clarifies, and President Arafat and the Palestinian leaders are committed to  their agreement," said Tibi.
"Arafat is not obliged to explain every morning and every evening  statements, especially if there are misunderstandings of the Islamic  religion," he added.
Sheikh Aakrameh Sabri, head of Islamic preaching and guidance in Jerusalem,  insisted: "Moslem rulers throughout history have abided by any document they  signed with non-Moslems.
"We do not allow any non-Moslem however educated to distort and give wrong  interpretations of Moslem history and of the Moslem religion."
The hodaibiya pact was signed by the Koraish tribe which controlled Mecca  in 628 and Prophet Mohammad, but scrapped after the tribe violated the  agreement, according to Moslem scholars. Mohammad took over Mecca two years  later.
Last week, Arafat had to hastily explain that despite the connotations of  "jihad," he had not meant a holy war.
Rabin was unconvinced, and then warned after gunmen in Gaza killed two  soldiers on Friday that any further attacks would stall the autonomy process.
Israel and the PLO have to negotiate the next step in the Declaration of  Principles, which stipulates that Israeli forces withdraw from populated  Palestinian areas in the West Bank before elections for an autonomous council,  now due in October.
Police Minister Moshe Shahal joined the chorus on Monday when he told  parliament: "If the (armed) attacks and Yasser Arafat's unfortunate comments  continue we shall go on talking to the Palestinians but we won't implement the  next stage" of autonomy.
The PLO had to prove it was capable of applying the autonomy agreement in  Gaza and Jericho efficiently.
He was speaking for the government in a debate on a right-wing censure  motion following the latest broadcast of Arafat's comments.
The PLO was jeopardising the peace process, and "the Palestinians have the  most to lose if the accord is broken," Shahal added. "It's a shame that on a  day of reconciliation in South Africa, Arafat called for Jewish blood to be  spilled."
