Three inspectors from the Vienna-based International  Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) arrived in Pyongyang Tuesday in their latest  attempt to investigate North Korea's suspect nuclear programme.
The arrival of the IAEA team was reported by the official Korean Central  News Agency (KCNA), which said: "Their inspection is expected to last  approximately a week."
The IAEA experts, who arrived in Pyongang by air via Beijing, are to  inspect an experimental plant in Yongbyon, 90 kilometers (55 miles) north of  the capital, that the West suspects is a nuclear bomb factory.
A North Korean foreign ministry spokesman on Saturday said the refuelling  operation had begun and the seals on the reactor's fuel rods had been broken.
Such a move in the absence of IAEA monirots would be a violation of  agreements between the IAEA and North Korea, an IAEA official said in Vienna.
The IAEA said its inspectors would be recalled immediately if they  confirmed that the refuelling had begun before their arrival.
The IAEA, the United Nation's nuclear watchdog, has insisted on viewing  the refuelling operation in order to determine if nuclear material has been  diverted for weapons production.
The United States has said the refuelling procedure could yield enough  plutonium for at least four nuclear bombs.
The IAEA monitors -- Olli Heinonen of Finland, Vladmir Rukhlo of Russia  and Tanzania's Jamaluddin Omar -- are scheduled to inspect a purported  "radio-chemical laboratory" from which a previous IAEA mission was shut out in  March.
The North Korean decision to begin the refuelling before the inspectors  arrived led the UN Security Council chairman to demand access to the facility.
North Korea has since told the IAEA that it was to replace fuel rods at  the five-megawatt nuclear reactor and offered to allow IAEA inspectors to  observe the operation.
But it has refused to let the IAEA sample the spent fuel to determine  whether plutonium had been diverted to a clandestine nuclear arms programme.
KCNA said at the weekend that agency need have no fear that the fuel had  been diverted for military use, as the process was being monitored by IAEA  cameras.
Pyongyang is "prepared to store all the spent fuel under the strict  surveillance of the IAEA and fully allow the IAEA to measure it," the KCNA  report quoted a North Korean foreign ministry official as saying.
