More than a thousand members of Chile's Communist  Party escorted the casket of former East German leader Erich Honecker to the  crematorium Sunday after a memorial led by his widow and daughter.
The simple grey casket draped with the flag of the defunct German  Democratic Republic was taken from the chapel of the Chilean capital's General  Cemetery to the crematorium.
Cemetery officials said however that Honecker, who died Sunday aged 81  after a long battle with liver cancer, would have to be cremated Tuesday  because of the late hour.
Honecker's widow, Margot, and their only child, Sonja, led a memorial for  scores of mourners earlier, but there was no religious ceremony and no burial  in Chile for Honecker, who built the Berlin Wall and ruled East Germany with  an iron fist for 18 years.
Honecker, exiled in Chile since January 14, 1993, wished to be buried with  his parents in Nunkirchen, Sarre, but it was not known whether German  authorities would allow it, spokesmen for the family said.
The German embassy in Santiago has made no comment since Honecker's death.
The Chilean government said the funeral in Santiago was private and that  other than a police guard no officials would attend.
Anemic, emaciated, and weakened by heart and lung problems that  accentuated in the final months, Honecker died in his bed at 7:00 a.m. Sunday  in the modest brick home here where he has lived since arriving as an exile.
Renato Palma, one of the doctors who treated him, said Honecker's heart  finally gave out after the natural progression of the liver cancer, "which he  accepted and endured with great dignity, with bravery."
Honecker required blood transfusions and could only drink liquid or be fed  intravenously, Palma said.
Her father was "lucid" when he died, Sonja Honecker said in brief  statement to the press, accompanied by friends and members of the Chilean left.
Honecker had a "sweet" death, said Hortensia Bussi, the widow of Chilean  president Salvador Allende, who died in a 1973 military coup that toppled his  socialist government.
After leading the German Democratic Republic since 1971, Honecker resigned  in October 1989 shortly before the Berlin Wall collapsed and fled to Moscow in  March 1991.
When the Russian government withdrew support for him, he took refuge in the  Chilean embassy in Moscow to escape extradition to Germany. He was wanted in  Berlin for the deaths of Germans killed trying to escape to the west. As many  as 400 people were killed in escape attempts between 1961 and 1989.
But leaders of the Chilean left launched a campaign to obtain asylym for  Honecker, saying they had a debt of gratitude to him.
More than 5,000 Chileans who fled the military regime of General Augusto  Pinochet found refuge in East Germany.
Honecker was deported anyway and went on trial in Berlin. But in January  1993 he was freed "for humanitarian reasons" because of the advanced stage of  his cancer and allowed to go to Chile, where his wife and daughter were living.
