President Bill Clinton's bid to win  congressional ratification of a global free trade agreement got a boost  Wednesday as the pact was endorsed by a key Democrat in the House of  Representatives.
The endorsement from majority leader Richard Gephardt is seen as a key to  approval of the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade  (GATT), which reduces duties on a wide range of goods among more than 100  countries.
Gephardt, who led opposition to the North American Free Trade Agreement,  was joined by six other Democratic representatives at a news conference  announcing support for GATT.
"The bottom line is that we believe GATT will help the economy to grow. It  will create jobs. It will raise America's standard of living," the Missouri  lawmaker said.
"The GATT lowers tariffs for hundreds of products. It ensures that our  intellectual property will be proteted. It opens markets to our competitive  financial services sector. In short, it's good for our country," he added.
Gephardt's endorsement is a major boost to ratification because some of  the fiercest opposition to GATT was expected to come from Democratic lawmakers.
While his support clears a major hurdle for the Clinton administration in  Congress, a plan still must be devised to compensate for the 14 billion dollar  revenue loss in the next five years from the 30 percent drop in tariffs  envisioned by GATT.
Nonetheless US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said the White House  would press to have the trade pact ratified before lawmakers adjourn this  summer.
"It should be ratified as quickly as possible," Kantor said in a speech to  the Heritage Foundation. "The president is going to put every energy in  ensuring thus gets done before the August vacation."
Kantor said the administration had no intention of seeking an exemption or  waiver to a budget rule requiring that any measure costing money to the US  Treasury be accompanied by a means of paying for it.
Any effort to circumvent budget rules might unsettle US financial markets,  he noted.
"To go out and seek a waiver could be construed by the market as not being  disciplined" in budgetary matters, Kantor said.
Gephardt also ruled out any circumvention of the budget agreement for the  trade pact. "We will follow budget rules," he said.
Meanwhile a business organization called for budget cuts to compensate for  the loss of revenue.
"If Congress makes an exception for the GATT agreement and fails to honor  its obligations under the budget law, what will stop it from breaching its  trust with the American people in a host of other cases?" said the United  States Business Council, made up of heads of manufacturing and service  companies.
Gephardt said had received assurances from the White House that GATT would  not preclude Washington from imposing sanctions on countries found to use  unfair trading practices.
Joining Gephardt in endorsing the agreement were Representatives Sander  Levin of Michigan, Louise Slaughter of New York, Robert Torricelli of New  Jersey, Jane Harman of California and Barbara Kennelly and Sam Gejdenson, both  of Connecticut. All had opposed NAFTA.
GATT, signed in Marrakesh, Morocco last month after seven years of  negotiations, is expected to lead to an increase of 750 billion dollars in  trade over the next 10 years.
