Britain presented its bid for the Golden  Palm at the Cannes film festival Monday, an archetypally English story of  restrained emotions and dormitory mischief set in a public school.
Starring Albert Finney and Greta Scacchi, "The Browning Version" provoked  immediate comparisons with such sure-fire English hits as Merchant-Ivory's  "Remains of the Day" or Robin Williams' "Dead Poet's Society."
For some the comparisons were too much. "Well made, but unoriginal" was a  comment made by more than one critic emerging from a press preview screening  of the film.
But director Mike Figgis was quick to defend his work, his first time in  the main competition here.
"I was aware of how easy it was to fall into the trap ... of just  presenting a safe picture ... which has become such an accepted cliche of  British filmmaking," he said in an interview with AFP.
But he said: "To me that was far more of a challenge, when you are up  against Merchant-Ivory and a certain perceived world image of England .. to  take a cliche .... and turn it on its head."
Finney plays Andrew Crocker-Harris, a classic master being forced to  resign from the school after 18 years -- ostensibly due to ill-health,  actually because of unpopularity.
His wife Laura (Scacchi) is having an affair with the school's American  science teacher -- provoking Finney's emotional crisis which is at the heart  of the film.
At least one critic at the preview ahead of Monday night's premiere was  impressed with the film, and in particular with Finney's performance.  "Outstanding," said one. "I had tears in my eyes."
Figgis is quite open about his aspirations for the film in commercial and  popular terms.
"You can either choose from a career point of view to be recognized for  intellectual nuance and thereby almost deliberately restrict the output of  your product to the circle that will read it.
"Or you can use it as a strength," he said, referring to the film's  familiar themes and setting.
Figgis, who first came to Cannes in 1988 with "Stormy Monday", is bidding  to keep up the British success achieved last year by compatriots Mike Leigh  and Ken Loach, who both took prizes on the Croisette.
The 46-year-old director had nothing but praise for his fellow British  filmmakers.
"Mike Leigh is fantastic, Ken Loach is fantastic," he said, adding: "I  think there is a feeling now with certain British filmmakers that we can be  braver now with our cliches. That's no bad thing."
