Ireland captain Michael Bradley was not  completely happy with a nine-try 64-8 win over Western Australia in the  opening clash of their rugby tour here Wednesday night.
"We went into this pipe-opener with certain objectives, and some were  accomplished and some were not," he said.
"We were not able to establish as strong a platform as we thought we  would, though Western Australian mistakes late in the game enabled us to chalk  up an impressive score."
Victory came at a significant price.
Hooker Keith Wood and centre Martin Ridge both needed stitches in gashes  over their eyes and No 8 Victor Costello has an injured left shoulder which  will be X-rayed on Thursday before the team heads for New South Wales and a  much more searching challenge on Sunday.
Manager Frank Sowman said early indications were the injuries were not  serious and posed no threats for the first of the two Tests against Australia  on June 5.
The visitors established a 17-3 lead by half time and dominated much of  the second half.
Centre Maurice Field ran in three tries, while replacement hooker Terence  Kingston (two), Costello, locks Jeremy Davidson and Patrick Johns and  full-back Conor O'Shea also crossed the line.
Flyhalf Eric Elwood converted eight of the nine tries as well as kicking a  penalty.
Ireland gained control of a bruising, sometimes spiteful, clash after  being stung by an early penalty by veteran fly-half Tom Fearn, which gave the  State the lead in the seventh minute.
Ireland dominated the lineouts but the Western Australian pack performed  gallantly in the loose.
Score summary
Ireland 64 Western Australia 8 (h-t: 17-3)
Ireland - Tries: Costello, Kingston (2), Davidson, Field (3), Johns,  O'Shea. Conversions: Elwood (8). Penalty: Elwood
Western Australia - Try: O'Callaghan. Penalty: Fearn
Ireland: Conor O'Shea; James Staples, Simon Geoghehan, Maurice Field,  Martin Ridge; Eric Elwood, Michael Bradley (captain); John Fitzgerald, Keith  Wood (Terence Kingston), Peter Clohessy, Michael Galway, Jeremy Davidson,  Patrick Johns, David Corkery, Victor Costello (Brian Robinson)
Western Australia: Ricky Smith; Greg Hamilton, David Hamilton, Steve Bunce,  Darryn Dunbar; Tom Fearn, Mike Ryburn (Gavin Johnston); Jo Tepania, Peter  Roberts (captain), Glen Thompson, Trefor Thomas, Steve Vitali, Reg Walters,  John O'Callaghan, Dirk Gleghorn
Referee: Andrew Cole (Australia)
