While only Scifo stands out as a really world class performer, the  Belgians are solid in every area of the field.
At the back they count on experienced keeper Michel Preud'homme, who will  be playing in his third World Cup finals, and the formidable tandem of Georges  Grun, the former Parma defender, and Anderlecht's Phillipe Albert.
Franky Van der Elst, with Club Brugge, does most of the ball-winning work  in midfield. His tactical acumen means Scifo and Anderlecht's Danny Boffin are  free to ensure the quality of passing and movement that has always  characterised Belgian teams.
The son of Sicilian immigrants, Scifo, who turned down the chance to play  for Italy, was one of the outstanding players of the 1990 finals.
Blessed with superb control, vision and the ability to strike passes or  shots with unrivalled precision, he has been tipped for greatness since he was  a teenager but his career has been an up-and-down affair.
He flopped at the 1984 European Championship and then failed to make the  grade in Italy after leaving Anderlecht for Inter Milan.
A move to France resurrected his career and allowed him to move back to  Italy. After a successful spell at Torino, he guided Monaco to the semi-finals  of this season's European Cup and his form will be central to Belgium's  chances.
Attacking midfielder Marc Wilmots of Standard Liege scored five goals in  the qualifying phase, although the danger men are still considered to be the  Anderlecht pairing of Marc Degryse and Luc Nilis.
Trumpet-playing Degryse warned his opponents not to underestimate them:  "Belgium might not possess a Marco Van Basten to provide a regular supply of  goals, and apart from Scifo we have no big stars. But we play very well a a  unit."
Van Himst has also brought in Josip Weber, a Croat who has recently taken  Belgian nationality. Weber scored 31 goals for Cercle Bruges this season to be  top scorer in the Belgian league for the third consecutive season.
Belgium factfile
Manager: Paul Van Himst
Belgian federation: founded 1895, 2,120 clubs, 390,468 players
Colours: Red shirts, shorts and socks
Key Players: Enzo Scifo, Georges Grun, Franky Van der Elst
World Cup: 9th appearance. Semi-finalists in 1986.
How they qualified: Runners-up in European group four behind Romania
