Former first lady Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis,  who died of cancer late Thursday in New York, was remembered for her courage  and grace following the death of her husband, former President John F. Kennedy.
She died of cancer at age 64 at her Fifth Avenue apartment, surrounded by  her children and friends, a day after doctors agreed they could do nothing  more for her.
The flag at the John F. Kennedy Library, in Boston, Massachusetts, was  lowered to half mast after the news.
"Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis was a model of courage and dignity for all  Americans and the World," President Bill Clinton said in a statement early  Friday.
"More than any other woman of her time, she captivated our nation and the  world with her intelligence elegance and grace," Clinton added.
"Even in the face of impossible tragedy, she carried the grief of her  family and our entire nation with a calm power that somehow reassured all of  us who mourned," the president said remembering the 1963 image of Onassis as a  young widow, standing next to Kennedy's grave with her two small children at  her side.
"Jackie Onassis brought great dignity and grace to the White House and  was, indeed, a charming and wonderful first lady," said former president  George Bush.
"Few women throughout history have touched the hearts and shaped the  dreams of Americans more profoundly," said Bush's predecessor Ronald Reagan.
"She was a remarkable woman in her way," said Reagan's wife, Nancy.
Onassis' brother-in-law, Senator Edward Kennedy, said in a statement:  "Jackie was part of our family and part of our hearts for 40 wonderful and  unforgettable years, and she will never really leave us."
The Democratic Senator for Massachusetts, who visited late Wednesday with  Onassis, was flying back to Washington when she passed away, his spokeswoman  said.
Senator Paul Simon, Democrat for Illinois, said that Onassis' "grace and  courage enriched our national life and our culture...Our sympathy goes out to  the entire family."
Democratic representative John Lewwis described the late first lady as "the  epitome of grace, charm, intellect and beauty."
After visiting Onassis Thursday, Representative Joseph Kennedy II, son of  the late Robert F. Kennedy, said his aunt was "very sick, and it's very sad,"  adding, "There's a lot of love in her room and in her apartment."
