Gulf Air operations grew by an average 15  percent annually in the past three years and a further six percent is  projected in the next five years, its chairman was quoted Friday as saying.
Salim al-Siyyabi made the comments to United Arab Emirates (UAE) reporters  aboard a new Airbus A-340, which Gulf Air has just received as the first of  six long-range A-340s it ordered last year. Another six Airbus A-320 will be  delivered in the next few years, raising its airbus fleet to 24.
Siyyabi, whose comments were published in the UAE semi official daily  al-Ittihad, said Gulf Air was among the fastest growing airlines in the Middle  East, where traffic grew by five percent.
"Gulf Air has chalked out a plan which projects a growth of six percent  annually in the next five years. This means Gulf Air will continue to make  profits during this period," he said.
Gulf Air, owned by the governments of Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and Abu Dhabi,  has embarked on a multi-billion-dollar expansion plan to face growing business  and competition from local and foreign carriers as well as airlines which have  recently emerged, especially in Oman and Qatar.
The plans cover modernisation of services, recruitment of more staff,  expansion of flight destinations and boosting of its fleet, which also  includes 18 Boeings and a few ageing Tristars.
Siyyabi said Gulf Air had made net profits of between 40 million and 50  million dollars a year over the past three years. Turnover exceeded one  billion dollars in 1993 and is expected to remain high in 1994, he added.
"Gulf Air will chalk out another expansion plan after 1997. There will be  an assessment of options regarding the fleet and services," he said.  "Concerning financing of the six Airbus A-320s, the company will invite  international financing institutions for securing the funds."
He said Gulf Air was conducting a study on privatisation, which has been  on the cards for several years.
Experts said the privatisation, which would be open only to citizens from  owning countries, was prompted by growing competition and expectations of  rapid growth in air traffic in the Middle East.
The Kuwaiti-based Gulf Investment Corporation, a joint investment venture  owned by six regional governments, is carrying out the privatisation study,  according to its vice president Hisham Razzuqi.
"The successful planning and implementation of the Gulf Air privatisation  will go a long way in encouraging the GCC states to acclerlate the  privatisation programmes currently under review in the region," he said.
