Nigel Mansell and Michael Andretti  bring the beginnings of a great racing rivalry into Sunday's Indianapolis 500.
Auto racing's richest event becomes a world stage for two drivers whose  feud began last year and could extend through the entire Indy-car season.
The rivalry stems from the 1993 series switch, which sent Andretti to  Formula One failure and F1 champion Mansell to an Indy-car series crown in  Andretti's former car.
"That bothered me a little," Andretti said. "It was my car. It was tough.  It was really a strange feeling."
Andretti flopped as a Formula One rookie with McLaren, giving up after  struggles on and off the courses last year. That made Mansell unhappy.
"What disappoints me as a professional race driver is that Michael didn't  do any favors for himself or the Indy-car circuit," Mansell said. "I would  have been happier with him staying another year to give himself another  opportunity."
"It will be far more difficult for anyone to make the transition across  now. They will be looked upon less favorably," Mansell said.
Andretti blamed his failure on a lack of support and testing time. But  England's Mansell had another message for him: "The buck has to stop somewhere  and it's your responsibility."
"It's a shame," Mansell said. "I was an extremely big supporter of  Michael. I showed encouragement."
"It takes commitment. Michael was going backwards and forwards. You have  to form a relationship, no matter what series you're racing. You have to, so  to speak, live with those people to get the support and encouragement. You  need that support and encouragement when things go wrong. If it's not there,  it can be pretty bad," Mansell said.
Andretti quit Formula One and would have liked to return to Mansell's spot  alongside his father Mario, who will retire after this season. Instead, the  younger Andretti finds himself racing with the rival Chip Ganassi team and  using a first-year Reynard chassis.
"Nothing went down for Michael the way it was planned," Mario Andretti  said. "He wasn't planning to be here so what could have been a seat was  already filled. Obviously if I could have called every shot, it might have  been different."
Mansell has signed a two-year contract with Paul Newman's race team and  will be the team's star once Mario retires.
Mansell's Indy-car crown came without a challenge from 1991 champion  Michael Andretti. Both use the same aggressive style, making them series  favorites this year along with Emerson Fittipaldi and Al Unser Jnr.
Andretti has served notice he will be a contender this time, winning the  season opener in Australia in March for his 28th Indy-car title.
Mansell and Michael had a brief shouting match on a failed start in  Australia, an incident Andretti blamed on Mansell.
"Nigel pushed me over a bit into the wall and forced me to back off,"  Andretti said. "That put us in a dangerous situation and I just went and told  him that. There's nothing we have to patch up. That was the end of it."
Was it? Only the unfolding Indy-car season will tell.
