A Sydney road worker, arrested Sunday by police  investigating Australia's backpacker serial killings, held up an English  tourist at gunpoint in 1990, a court heard here Monday.
Ivan Milat, 49, was charged with robbing a 24-year-old English backpacker  with a revolver. No plea was taken.
Prosecutor Eddie Billett said the tourist was hitchhiking to Melbourne  from Liverpool, on the southern outskirts of Sydney, in January 1990. The  tourist, whose gender was not specified, accepted a lift when Milat made an  approach while the tourist was having a drink at Casula, he said.
As they drove south, Milat allegedly stopped the car near the Belangalo  State Forest, saying he wanted to get a cassette from under his seat.
"When the victim got out of the car, the defendant pulled out a revolver  from the driver's seat and pointed it at the victim," Billett said.
"This is a robbery," Milat allegedly told the tourist, who was not  identified.
Milat allegedly shouted: "Stop or I will shoot," as the tourist ran  zigzagging down the road.
One shot was heard, the court heard.
Milat allegedly caught up and grabbed the tourist by the shirt, tearing  the sleeves, the prosecutor said.
The tourist managed to escape by stopping a motorist and getting a lift to  Bowral police station.
Billett said Milat robbed the tourist of a backback containing clothing, a  camera, British passport, gold chain and a plane ticket.
The tourist identified Milat on May 5 this year from 13 photographs, the  court was told.
Defense lawyer Jim Marsden said Milat lived with his wife until 1987 when  he divorced and moved in with his mother before moving again to his sister's  home in Eagle Vale, on Sydney's southwestern outskirts.
"Two words make (this case) emotive," Marsden said, while seeking bail.  "They are backpacker and Belangalo."
The remains of seven backpackers -- three Germans, two Britons and two  Australians -- were found buried in shallow graves in the Belangalo State  Forest, near Bowral, between 1992 and 1993.
Chief magistrate Kevin Flack of Campbelltown local court, south of Sydney,  adjourned the case until May 31 when the matter would come up for a mention.
Milat was charged with robbery and using a revolver during the offence and  Flack said the charges were too serious for him to allow bail.
Milat, with tousled greying hair and a moustache down to his chin,  appeared relaxed throughout proceedings and was wearing an open-necked checked  shirt.
Scores of journalists packed the benches and stood in the modern courtroom  to follow the case.
