Western and Russian diplomats shunned a planned  signing ceremony Saturday for a Bosnian Moslem-Croat federation because they  were angry about extra land being demanded by the two groups, Croatian  newspapers said Sunday.
US Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who presided at a celebration in  Geneva to mark the US-brokered project, said a formal ceremony had been  dropped as superfluous as a document had already been signed in Vienna in  March.
But the Croatian daily Vecernji List said the powers behind a new joint  peace declaration on Bosnia were angry about Croat and Moslem insistance that  the new state cover 58 percent of the old Bosnia-Hercegovina.
The peace plan, endorsed by US, Russian and five west European foreign  ministers in Geneva late Friday, would provide 51 percent of  Bosnia-Hercegovina to a Croat-Moslem federation and 49 percent to Serbs.
Bosnian land claims "displeased" some ministers present who then "declined  to attend the signing ceremony, which turned into a reception," said Vecernji  List. Most sent diplomats in their place and "Russia was not represented at  all."
The daily Vjesnik, close to the Croatian government, also referred to the  "discontent" shown especially by Russia, Britain and France.
Christopher diplomatically avoided all criticism at Saturday's  celebration, saying its message was that peace could be achieved through  negotiations.
A framework had been established to protecting the political and human  rights of the people who lived in the federation, and "the darkness of  inter-ethnic strife is slowly giving way to a glimmer of reconciliation," he  said.
But Bosnian Moslem leaders criticised the US, European and Russian joint  declaration Saturday, saying it amounted to an endorsement of ethnic cleansing.
The Croat-Moslem land demands came in an agreement signed by the two  groups in Vienna Wednesday, which also gave details of the proposed new  federation's interim government.
The official Croatian news agency HINA, which published the text of the  agreement Saturday, said Moslems would hold the most important posts.
A Croat will hold the interim presidency for the first six months,  followed by a popularly elected candidate. The post of prime minister should  go to a Moslem, it said.
Moslems will also hold the ministries of interior, foreign affairs,  transport, energy and industry, refugees and welfare, education and science,  environment and three ministries without portfolio.
The deputy prime minister, who will also hold the defence ministry, will be  a Croat along with the ministers of finance, justice, trade and health and one  minister without portfolio, it said.
The original agreement signed in Washington in March said the presidency  would rotate between Moslem and Croat candidates holding one-year mandates.
