Barely a year after President Geidar Aliyev came to  power, the Azerbaijani leader's hold on power is threatened by his opposition  to re-establishment of Russian influence in the Transcaucasus republic.
Russia wants to place its troops along the Azerbaijani border with Iran,  establish its own military bases in the country and deploy Russian  peacekeeping troops between Azerbaijani and Armenian forces in the disputed  enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh.
Russia also wishes to keep a hold on Azerbaijan's oil wealth.
"Our oil resources mean that Russia will never allow us to leave" its  sphere of influence, a senior Azerbaijani government official claimed.
The principle stick with which Russia is using to beat Aliyev into  submission is the six-year war for control over the Armenian-populated region  of Nagorno-Karabakh.
All former Azerbaijani presidents have fallen following major territorial  losses to separatist Armenian forces, which Azerbaijan claims were only made  possible with Russian aid and material.
Political observers in both Yerevan and Baku claim Russia is threatening  Aliyev with an Armenian advance on the northwestern city of Gandja, a major  transport hub where several oil fields are located.
"The Azerbaijani army has no will to fight - the boost to morale  following January's recapture of Goradiz has all but gone," a senior western  aid worker said.
Aliyev's stand-off with Russia came to a head with the signing of the  Bishkek protocol, a Russian-brokered peace agreement to establish a ceasefire  and establish CIS peacekeeping troops in Karabakh.
Under heavy pressure from Russian envoy Vladimir Kazimirov, the  Azerbaijani parliamentary speaker Rasul Guliev actually signed the protocol in  Baku but the government later went back on the agreement, claiming it wished  to resolve the conflict through the Minsk Group of the Conference for Security  and Cooperation in Europe.
"Aliyev cannot decide whether to give into Russia or not," claimed Asim  Molla-Zade, Deputy Chairman of Azerbaijan's main opposition party, the Popular  Front.
Western observers note that Aliyev's hopes of a western-brokered peace  agreement are growing thinner. "Aliyev held out on the oil contract but it  didn't do him any good," said a western diplomat referring to Aliyev's  previous linkage of an agreement with the western oil consortium to western  intervention in Karabakh.
The Popular Front, with 25 other political organisations, has formed a  "Movement of National Resistance" to oppose Azerbaijan's signature on the  Bishkek protocol, claiming it threatened independence.
Aliyev has clamped down on opposition criticism - a demonstration  organised by the movement was broken up by truncheon-wielding police Saturday  while the independent BMTI television station was closed down by the  government last week.
The Azerbaijani leader has also built up something of a personality cult,  his benign smile appearing constantly on state television and on posters  pinned in shop windows - one declares: "The people - my faith, my belief, my  support."
Diplomats believe the parliamentary speaker, Guliev, poses more of a  threat to Aliyev than the opposition.
But it is the stark choice presented by Russia to Aliyev - either to  accept greater Russian influence as neighbouring Georgia has done, or risk  losing power in the misguided hope that the west will intervene in Karabakh -  that will decide the former Politburo member's political fate.
