Iran on Wednesday strongly protested to Saudi  Arabia over the "siege" of its pilgrim camp in Mecca and said several of its  officials were trapped inside.
Special Saudi riot police were deployed around the camp late Sunday after  Iran announced it was determined to hold an anti-US and anti-Israel rally in  front of the compound on Tuesday.
The rally was called off, but security forces were still deployed outside  and several officials were unable to leave, radio said here.
The Iranian embassy in Riyadh sent a "strongly-worded" letter to the Saudi  foreign ministry to protest against the siege, the official Iranian news  agency said.
"The siege has disrupted the affairs of our people ahead of the pilgrimage  period," said the embassy letter.
As the row deepened, some 100 protestors shouting "death to Saudi Arabia",  turned up in front of the Saudi embassy here to protest the banning of the  "Deliverance from the Infidels" demonstration.
They arrived in two buses, just minutes after around 50 armed riot police  were deployed around the embassy to protect it against possible attack.
A police officer at the scene told AFP that the move was taken at the  request of Saudi authorities to protect the embassy amid the mounting tension  between the two countries.
The radio said the head of the Iranian pilgrimage delegation Mohammad  Mohammadi Reyshahri and Ayatollah Ahmad Janti, a conservative clergyman close  to spiritual guide Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, were among those unable to leave  the Mecca camp.
Special Saudi commando forces were still stationed around the quarter,  with police helicopters flying overhead and filming all movements around the  camp, IRNA said.
Khamenei on Wednesday warned Saudi Arabia against harrassing the Iranians  in Mecca during their pilgrimage.
"But we will not say anything until we see how our pilgrims are treated by  the Hijaz rulers," he said, implying he did not recognise the Saudi family as  guardians of the holy sites in that country.
Khamenei warned he would "closely follow the case of" some 60,000 Iranian  pilgrims in Mecca and called on Riyadh to ensure their safety and comfort  during the pilgrimage.
Anti-US demonstrations in Mecca have triggered clashes in previous years,  the most violent being in 1987, when 400 pilgrims, including 275 Iranians,  were killed. Diplomatic ties between the two countries were broken off for  three years afterwards.
The annual Moslem pilgrimage this year is to start on Friday in Mecca, the  birth place of the prophet Mohammad and Islam's holiest shrine.
