Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Saturday it  was time for Israel and the PLO to push ahead with negotiations on extending  Palestinian self-rule, following its launch in Jericho and Gaza.
"We must continue the negotiations without waiting, not only on extending  autonomy to other parcels of the territories, as we will do in Washington, but  also to negotiate the handover" of civilian powers, he told Israeli radio.
"It would be wrong to believe that we can be in charge of the existence of  the Palestinians in Nablus, Hebron and Ramallah," which are towns on the  occupied West Bank, along with Jericho, he said.
Peres referred to education, health, welfare and taxes.
On Friday, as Palestinian policemen took over Jericho, Deputy Foreign  Minister Yossi Beilin said Israel could withdraw totally from the West Bank  within five years.
As for Jericho itself, Peres said he was "very happy that our heart has  been unburdened of this weight."
"When I hear the relief of our soldiers who were sent to serve as targets  for young stone-throwers, I tell myself: our soldiers have been brave, but,  thank God, it's over," he said.
The foreign minister, adding his voice to scepticism already expressed in  Damascus, said he doubted US Secretary of State Warren Christopher's shuttle  mission to Syria and Israel, starting on Sunday, could produce a breakthrough.
"For the time being, Syria's proposals do not give us much hope," he said.
Beilin, meanwhile, told the US television network CNN: "I think the  American mediation is vital. We will be able to see peace between us and Syria  within months."
An official in Damascus has charged that Israel had "minimized the US role  by reducing it to a mere postman delivering the Israeli point of view without  any amendment."
Syria insists on a full Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights,  captured in the 1967 Middle East war.
Christopher is to meet Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara on his  arrival in Damascus on Sunday night, before heading the next day for Israel,  where he is expected to stay until early Wednesday.
US officials with the secretary in Geneva on Saturday also played down the  latest peace mission. "The one certainty is that there will be a lot of trips  ... It will be a long and arduous process," one official warned.
Washington, as the chief sponsor of the Middle East peace process, has  turned its attention to Syria since the signing of the Israel-PL0 accord on  May 4 to launch autonomy in Gaza and Jericho.
