Indian Prime Minister R.V. Narasimha Rao met  Thursday with President Bill Clinton, who called the encounter the beginning  of a solid relationship needed for dealing with South Asia's difficult  problems.
"This began what I hope will be a very close working relationship" with  India, said Clinton after a two-hour White House meeting during with they  covered trade and security concerns affecting India and South Asia.
The first visit to the United States by an Indian prime minister since  1987 is intended to smoothe relations with India and both leaders took the  opportunity of the news conference to highlight their common goals.
Clinton and Rao discussed economic cooperation, nuclear non-proliferation  and the India-Pakistan conflict over Kashmir.
The United States says it has pressed the nuclear issue as critical for  international security because of rising Indian-Pakistan tensions in Kashmir  that it fears could escalate into a nuclear exchange.
Washington supports a regional South Asia plan to freeze India's secret  nuclear weapons program in exchange for a cap on the arsenal Pakistan is  believed to have developed.
Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott went to South Asia to sell the US  plan but met resistance from Pakistan which said it needs its nuclear weapons  to deter an attack by India while India claimed the same defense against China.
Rao told Congress Wednesday he supported a global approach to controlling  nuclear weapons proliferation and disarmament but made no reference the US  South Asia plan.
His call for a global solution to nuclear nonproliferation would seem to  quiet critics at home who opposed the US-backed regional approach without  totally rebuffing the United States.
The trip by Rao, the first Indian prime minister to visit Washington since  Rajiv Gandhi in 1987, has been billed by both sides as an opportunity to  foster a new, positive relationship that has been strained over the past year.
Rao's address before Congress, the confirmation hearings for  ambassador-designate Frank Wisner Tuesday and his meeting with Clinton and  other cabinet members are all aimed at easing some of those tensions.
India has been miffed over the 18-month delay in naming a US ambassador to  such a key post and over US administration efforts to bypass a congressional  ban and go ahead with the sale of 38 F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan.
Talbott tried to persuade Pakistan in April to accept a verifiable cap on  its nuclear weapons in exchange for a one-time waiver of a ban on the sale of  the jets that Pakistan has already paid for.
Rao met with Defense Secretary William Perry on Wednesday when the prickly  issue of nuclear non-proliferation and the sale of the fighter jets to  Pakistan were discussed.
During his trip, Rao has persistently focused on the new economic  relationship between the United States and India that has benefitted from  Rao's wide-ranging economic reforms instituted three years ago.
Trade between the two countries last year totalled 7.3 billion dollars and  Rao repeatedly told business leaders here and Congress on Wednesday that his  country's labor market, huge domestic market and democratic system offers  tremendous investment opportunities.
The vast potential of trade and investment was the area Rao wanted to  focus on and it provided solid footing for both sides, but despite his efforts  some of Rao's troubles from home tagged him here.
Kashmir groups held a demonstration outside Congress as he addressed the  legislature and protested outside the White House, denouncing repression by  Indian security forces against the region's civilian population.
During his congressional address, Rao said India is determined to protect  the rights of minority groups but he also defended the government's right to  protect the public from "the bullets of terrorists."
Human Rights Watch/Asia and Physicians for Human Rights released a report  accusing Indian police of murdering and torturing hundreds of Sikhs during the  decade-long insurgency in Punjab, state-sanctioned methods that the report  said was also used in Kashmir.
