Britain's Damon Hill dedicated his victory in  Sunday's Spanish grand prix to the memory of Ayrton Senna, his Williams  Renault teammate who was killed in a crash at Imola a month ago.
"This is a victory for everyone at Williams who have had such a terrible  time and for all the fans of Ayrton who I met in Brazil and who said to me  they wanted to see Williams do well," Hill said after the fourth race win of  his young career.
"I've never known such a difficult month," he added. "It was very  important to do well here."
Hill's triumph on the Catalunya circuit, which he admitted he had not  expected, denied Michael Schumacher, who was hit by gear-box problems, a fifth  consecutive win.
The Benetton Ford driver, who had won the first four races of the  tragedy-hit season, was in trouble after only a third of the race but still  produced a fine drive.
Schumacher said: "I went into the pits but they couldn't do anything about  it. So we just changed tyres and I carried on. I never would have imagined  finished second in these conditions so that is a kind of victory for me."
Schumacher, who beat Hill to the first corner and was pulling away from  his rival in the early part of the race, lost the lead to Mika Hakkinen in the  McLaren during a stop on the 21st of 65 laps.
Hill took the lead for the first time ten laps later when the Finn went  off for a tyre change.
Schumacher regained it briefly when Hill went in for an early final change  but the Briton resumed the lead 20 laps from the end when Schumacher himself  went off.
Despite fresher tyres the German was unable to challenge in the closing  stages and Hill held on comfortably for the victory.
Another Briton, Mark Blundell, was third in a Tyrrell-Yamaha. He came  through to clinch a podium place after the Finnish pair, Hanniken and JJ  Lehto, were forced off.
Hakkinen's engine blew up in the 49th lap just as he seemed set to take a  full part in a three-way dogfight at the finish.
Hill's win was the first for Williams since his victory in the Italian  Grand Prix at Monza last September.
After the deaths of Senna and Roland Ratzenberger at San Marino last month  and the accident at Monte Carlo that left Austrian Karl Wendlinger in a coma,  organisers were relieved to see Sunday's race, which took place in difficult  conditions, finish without serious incident.
