Australia's international transport group, TNT,  announced a big profit turnaround Wednesday, citing asset sales and improved  results from its stake in Ansett Airlines.
The company posted net earnings for the nine months to March 31 of 85.48  million Australian dollars (62 million US) compared with a net loss of 92.04  million dollars in the previous corresponding period.
Earnings were boosted by an abnormal gain of 78.55 million dollars, mostly  from the sale of the Holyman and Auto Logistics subsidiaries.
"While it is difficult to forecast the impact of the recovery from the  worldwide recession, directors are encouraged by the progress that is  currently being made and are confident that the full year's result will be in  line with plan," chairman Fred Millar said.
The jump in pre-tax profit to 104.30 million dollars from 4.19 million  dollars previously was largely attributed to improved results from TNT's  50-percent stake in the Ansett Airlines group and reduced losses from GD  Express Worldwide (GDEW).
While GDEW's losses were reduced, they came in above expectations in the  third quarter due to delays in introducing management reforms and additional  costs due to freight growth exceeding expectations.
TNT said Spain's results for the period were "disappointing" with  increased losses in an extremely difficult trading environment.
Contributions from TNT's newspaper and magazine delivery business and  transport logistics in Britain were lower, partly due to revised contract  terms and reduced market activity.
In Australia, strong performances continued to be reported by McPhee  Transport, Comet, Carpentaria Transport and materials handling divisions.
Profits in Canada were expected to increase as the economic outlook in  North America strengthened and stringent cost controls continued, Millar said.
TNT Chronoservice in France continued to reduce its losses despite a  difficult operating environment, while the Italian TNT Traco operation made a  lower contribution due to the weakness of the lira and higher costs.
