The ruling Liberal Party's Ernesto Samper edged out  his closest opponent Sunday in Colombia's presidential ballot but voters will  have to return to the polls next month for a runoff as he failed to win a  majority.
With 95.7 percent of the votes counted nationwide, Samper, with 45.2  percent, was leading Conservative Andres Pastrana, with 45 percent, according  to official results.
But as the 43-year-old economist failed to win a clear majority in the  18-way race, voters will have to return for a June 19 runoff, a first in this  South American country with a 17 million-strong electorate.
Turnout was much lower than authorities hoped, dipping below 35 percent in  the polling to pick a successor to President Cesar Gaviria, the electoral  board said.
Earlier, authorities reported that voting had been peaceful despite rebel  clashes with army troops over the weekend.
Three presidential candidates were assassinated in the 1990 presidential  elections.
Both the FARC and the National Liberation Army (ELN), the country's two  main rebel groups, had vowed to sabotage the elections. But Interior Minister  Fabio Villegas said few polling stations -- 40 of 47,427 -- were troubled by  any kind of rebel intimidation.
Earlier, army forces shot and killed a number of rebels in the southern  Huila province and a soldier was injured by members of the Revolutionary Armed  Forces of Colombia (FARC) in southeastern Caldas, the defense ministry said.
There were also reports that rebels had burned three buses on a highway  along the Caribbean coast.
Police and military authorities deployed over 200,000 troops to keep the  peace and alcohol was banned during the polling, as were street festivals that  traditionally accompany Colombian elections.
Samper has national experience as development minister under Gaviria.  Pastrana is a journalist and the son of former president Misael Pastrana.
Their platforms differ mainly on economics, with Samper more cautious about  the pace of selling off state-owned businesses and lifting trade barriers than  Pastrana, who has campaigned as a gung-ho free-marketeer.
Gaviria, a Liberal, leaves office at 47 with an unusually high 60 percent  approval rating. The constitution bars the president from serving a second  consecutive four-year term.
