Northern troops turned up the heat on Aden as  a missile slammed into the newly-declared Yemeni Democratic Republic's capital  on Sunday, but the south vowed to defend its independence and crush the  north's advance.
The northern missile attack on the southern stronghold of Aden killed two  people and wounded three others, all from the same family, within 24 hours of  the south declaring independence.
The south warned it would resist the northern push toward Aden, after  President Ali Abdallah Saleh said the port city would be taken "at all costs."
Aden Radio countered: "The road to Aden is a very long and thorny one. It  will be the graveyard of the new invaders before their delusions can touch  proud Aden."
On the northern front, Saleh's troops have been in full control of the  southern air base of Al-Anad, on the road to Aden, since Friday, according to  Sanaa Radio.
But exactly four years after Yemen's ill-fated unification, the south  pressed ahead with shedding its links with the north, undeterred by Saleh's  anger and accusations that independence was "an act of high treason."
On Sunday, the temporary national unity assembly announced the creation of  a five-man presidential council including Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid,  ousted from his post by Sanaa.
Talks were going on Sunday for the formation of a south Yemeni government,  sources in Aden said.
Saleh meanwhile has sought to drum up support for maintaining the shaky  unity between the conservative, tribal North and the former Marxist South  which were merged on May 22, 1990.
The president said Aden was surrounded and his troops were pushing on to  the port Mukalla where his Baid has been sheltering for several days since  fleeing Aden.
The north and south have been embroiled in a civil war since May 5, after  several months of political crisis between Baid and Saleh.
Sunday's missile hit a house in the Khormaqsar district of Aden, causing  widespread damage and cutting electricity supplies to the area, ambulance  crews and police said.
On the eastern battlefront, northern forces shot down a southern warplane  and seized 15 tanks in the Abyan region, Sanaa Radio said, adding that the  enemy suffered heavy losses.
The south said its airplanes had launched a series of raids on northern  positions and seized 30 northern tanks in Kharaz, 130 kilometres (80 miles)  west of Aden.
The president, who has accused the south of receiving foreign military  aid, said two airplanes landed at Mukalla airport Saturday while a warship  brought in a cargo of arms to the port.
Saleh telephoned five Arab leaders late Saturday to update them on events,  including Saudi's King Fahd and Syrian President Hafez al-Assad.
But Arab states have so far steered clear of issuing a direct condemnation  of the south's independence.
Jordanian Deputy Prime Minister Said al-Tall said his country "supports  legality in Yemen and the unity of its people."
A northern statement implied that it would cut links with any country  recognising the new republic.
Any contact with Baid would be "considered an act hostile to the Yemeni  people and a flagrant and unacceptable interference in our internal affairs,"  it warned.
In statements reported by the northern-controlled official agency Saba  several political parties denounced the secession, including the pro-Iraqi  Baath and Al-Haq, a moderate Islamic group.
The north is willing to negotiate only with Yemen Socialist Party elements  opposed to independence, Sanaa Radio said, after a faction of the southern  party was reported to have condemned Baid's declaration.
