As the June 3 deadline drew near, Clinton was caught between a human  rights lobby which felt China had signally failed to meet the conditions and a  powerful business lobby which argued that disrupting a 40 billion dollar trade  relationship would be an economic catastrophe.
A leak Thursday of news that aircraft maker Boeing, the world's largest  exporter, was negotiating a five billion dollar contract with China that would  clearly depend on MFN renewal served as a timely reminder of just what was at  stake for US business.
Last year Clinton outlined seven areas needing improvement if he were to  renew China's MFN status for another year, and asked Secretary of State Warren  Christopher to submit a report.
Over the past week, US officials have laid the ground for the fact that  Clinton was not going to withdraw MFN, announcing that China had basically  fulfilled the two mandatory conditions.
These were allowing emigration and an end to export of goods made by  forced prison labor, although human rights groups maintained this week that  they had new evidence that such exports were continuing.
An extra boost to Clinton's case came Thursday when the State Department  announced that Beijing and Washington had agreed a formula to resolve the  problem of US complaints of jamming of Voice of America radio broadcasts.
China had long denied US complaints that it was jamming VOA broadcasts  into China, but as a result of talks in Beijing which ended Thursday, the two  sides agreed on providing VOA an interference-free frequency.
In addition to the human rights and business lobbies, Clinton has also  been under pressure from a vocal minority within his own Democratic Party to  maintain the link between trade and human rights.
But the US president on Thursday defended his decision, saying "our  destiny demands that we contine to play an active role in this region.
"I believe, in other words, that this is in the strategic best interests  of both China and the United States."
