Angola's rebel UNITA movement blamed the government  Thursday for slow progress in marathon peace talks here, accusing Luanda of  delaying implementation of the power-sharing plan intended to secure an end to  civil war.
As negotiators from both sides prepared to resume meetings here Thursday,  Jorge Valentim, spokesman of the National Union for the Total Independence of  Angola (UNITA), warned the government to stop "playing around with mere words"  over the issue.
"There is no substance on the key issue(s) of our participation in  government ... and the future of our country," he said.
UNITA negotiators, who have just returned from their Huambo headquarters  in central Angola, were expected to meet the government delegation Thursday  afternoon to prepare for the scheduled final leg of peace talks which began in  the Zambian capital last November.
"We have waited for two months but we have not heard anything from the  government on the issue (of power-sharing). We expect the government to give  us something this afternoon," said Valentim.
"We want to continue with the negotiations on a more substantive note and  (the government) should not be playing around with mere words," he added.
But he added: "How can we continue to discuss specifics of national  reconciliation without substantive answers on the future government?"
Negotiations on reconciliation were suspended in March after the two civil  war foes of 18 years failed to compromise on five issues, including  power-sharing.
They have since resolved two of the issues but still have to agree on the  status of the rebels' Vorgan radio and the role of its deputies in parliament,  as well as UNITA participation in a government of national unity.
The government has offered UNITA the ministries of health, commerce,  tourism and material for construction and the governorship of three other  provinces -- excluding Huambo  -- out of Angola's 18.
The government has not responded to UNITA's proposed amendments to the  offers.
