Mohammad Taleb licked his  ice-cream as he wandered with three friends through the moonlit streets of  Gaza City after midnight.
Since the intifada erupted at the end of 1987, none of the quartet had  been able to taste such simple nocturnal pleasures.
For the past six years there has been a curfew from nightfall until dawn  and those brave enough to venture out risked a bullet in the back from Israeli  soldiers.
"For the first time I am really alive," said the 25-year-old tailor from  Shatti refugee camp along the Gaza seafront.
"I'm so happy. It's unbelievable. I feel like I have become a human being,  free.
"Night meant searches, shooting, shouts ... and plain fear. I used to be  shut up at home. That's over now. It's like coming out of a bad dream."
Warda Street, one of the main commercial thoroughfares, is packed with  people. Gaza is out for a walk, gazing up at the starry canopy.
"I'm sick of television," said Raeh al Batsh, 24. "I was suffocating  inside."
"It is exciting out here. I've never seen my town at night," he said  handing sorbets to his family through the window of his little Fiat.
Traffic is heavy. Gangs of flag-waving youths chant nationalist slogans  from the back of trucks which race up and down.
Fatah Hawks, the armed wing of PLO chairman Yasser Arafat's mainstream  Palestinian movement, drive by with their guns poking out of car windows.
But just being able to walk unmolested is the greatest pleasure.
"You have to have been deprived for such a long time to appreciate this,"  Mohammad Taleb explained. "Walking slowly .. stopping to greet friends,  looking at the moon rather than the sideboard in the dining room."
Such freedoms began to return last Tuesday night when the first  Palestinian policemen entered the Gaza Strip to assume control of the  newly-autonomous area.
"That night I decided to keep my restaurant open," said Madhad Abu Eloun,  55. A 10 p.m. a jeep pulled up but the soldiers left without saying a word.  Then I knew the curfew was over."
On the other side of the road in the Shifa mosque, the faithful are  kneeling for the Al Ishaa prayer which is said only after dark.
"We could never say it at the mosque because it was too late," said Magid  Arafat, 28, a baker. "Look how many of us there are today.
At a teashop, three ex-soldiers from the Palestine Liberation Army (PLA)  walk in arm-in-arm with a brother they met for the first time on Friday.  Drinks are on the house, which soon fills up with well-wishers.
After the ice cream shops, Gazans head for the new temporary police  headquarters, nearly all are men from the PLA.
The road outside is jammed despite the best efforts of the new force to  keep the cars moving.
"This is our new authority," said Oum Mohammad, looking at the renovated  building, all lights ablaze by the Mediterranean.
"After 27 years of occupation, our people are going to maintain order. So  we are curious to see what they look like."
