Indian Premier P.V. Narasimha Rao's Congress (I)  party won five out of seven parliamentary constituencies that went to the  polls Thursday in by-elections seen as a popularity test, officials said on  Sunday.
But the Congress shared the honours with a fractured opposition in the 10  state assembly seats that also went to the hustings, winning only half of  them, news agencies reported.
Five Congress candidates won by huge margins in four provinces, including  Rao's southern home state of Andhra Pradesh, the Press Trust of India said.
A sixth constituency was won by a minor leftist party in West Bengal,  which has been ruled by communists since June 1977, while counting of votes  was continuing in the seventh parliamentary seat.
The Congress, which had tried to downplay the polls on grounds that they  did not affect the existing political setup, on Sunday claimed that the  outcome was a vote of support for its rule.
C.K. Jaffer Sharieff, a party leader and railway minister, said in a  statement that the results showed support for the economic reform programme of  Rao's three-year-old government.
"It is a vote for peace, secularism and stability," he said.
The main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP, Indian People's Party)  won a parliamentary constituency where polling took place in 1991 but where a  section of voters cast ballots again on Thursday.
The BJP won only one state assembly seat. Four others were claimed by a  communist, a communist-backed independent, and the Tamil regional party  AIAIDK, which won both seats on offer in the coastal state of Tamil Nadu.
Among the victorious candidates was Chief Minister Digvijay Singh of the  Congress-governed Madhya Pradesh state who was elected to the local  legislature and needed to win to retain his office.
Thursday's byelections, although making no difference to the political  fortunes of the parties in the fray, covered 12 of India's 25 states and were  widely seen as a popularity test ahead of the major provincial battles.
Elections are to be held in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka,  Sikkim and Goa by November and in Arunachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra,  Bihar, Manipur and Orissa by March next year.
