French authorities are mounting an enormous  logistics and security operation for D-Day anniversary festivities next week,  reminiscient of the precision planning that preceded the Allied landings  themselves 50 years ago.
The challenge facing civilian and military planners on June 5 and 6 will  be to ensure that an estimated 100,000 people -- including 19 kings,  presidents and prime ministers, 30,000 veterans and tens of thousands of  officials, celebrities, soldiers and journalists -- can eat, sleep, get around  and communicate with as little hassle as possible.
The job has to get done in the course of 15 hours, during which 19  ceremonies will take place at 17 locations along a strip of the magnificent  Normandy coast seven to 20 kilometers (four to 12 miles) wide.
More than 7,000 police officers are being mobilized to ensure not only  security but the smooth flow of traffic over 110 kilometers (70 miles) of  roadway.
Despite the scope of the operation, the Normandy Battle and Landing  Association is serenely confident that the 30,000 returning veterans will have  no trouble finding places to stay either in hotels, campgrounds, country  cabins or private homes.
"Virtually all the requests from veterans for free housing in private  homes ... from June 1 to 15 have been honored," according to the association.
The Normandy Tourist Board said all 48,000 hotel beds within 50 kilometers  (30 miles) of the beaches where Allied forces landed on June 6, 1944 had been  booked up for months.
But it added that when campgrounds, cabins and vacation complexes are  taken into consideration, there are an estimated 100,000 beds available in the  area.
Once they are comfortably installed, veterans and their families and  friends will be escorted to the ceremony sites by 270 reserve officer cadets  from the French army and some 800 secondary school students and their teachers.
The government has rented 1,000 buses to transport guests from 15 staging  centers.
From June 3 to June 7 the Caen hospital will have 370 beds available, ready  to be monitored by reinforced medical teams. Around 1,500 firemen and 500 Red  Cross volunteers will also be standing by.
Similar preparations are being made in Rouen, another Normandy city, where  650 Polish, Belgian and Luxemburg soldiers will be quartered.
In all, 15,000 active duty soldiers, including 2,300 from the United  States, are to take part in the events. The US troops have already hit the  Normandy beaches, setting up their own quarters and field clinics and carrying  their own rations.
But French authorities are anxious to make clear that the old soldiers are  to be the priority guests, hoping to lay to rest two conflicts that erupted in  early April and attracted uncomfortable international attention.
One hundred and seventeen Candaian veterans were on the verge of losing  their reservations at the Hotel du Golf in Deauville after the French foreign  ministry ruled that the rooms would be needed to accomodate political leaders.
Clobbered by an avalanche of bitter criticism, the ministry backed off and  said the vets could have their rooms after all.
In a second, less publicized incident, 50 British veterans had their  reservations cancelled at the Mondeville Hotel near here when their deposits  had not been received in time. The flap was eventually settled after a lawyer  for the veterans threatened to go to court.
For the 2,000 to 3,000 journalists expected to cover the events, finally,  press centers have been set up in Bayeux and Caen and France-Telecom has  installed more than 1,500 temporary telephone lines.
