North Korea on Saturday defended moves to go ahead  with the unmonitored removal of fuel rods at a controversial nuclear reactor  as necessary to prevent economic losses and radioactive leakage.
The North Korean Workers Party newspaper commented that the country would  never allow sampling of the fuel rods by the IAEA, "no matter what others say  and what counter-action they may take."
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) on Saturday confirmed that a  mission by IAEA inspectors had failed, saying North Korea had refused to allow  inspectors to check refuelling at the Yongbyon reactor to see if plutonium had  been diverted to make nuclear bombs.
In an apparent signal to Washington, Rodong Sinmun added "the most  reasonable solution" was to preserve "all the replaced fuel rods under the  surveillance of the agency and measure them when the nuclear problem is solved  in a package deal."
Pyongyang has sought an end to US-South Korean "Team Spirit" war games and  improved ties with the United States in exchange for cooperation in ending the  nuclear standoff.
On Friday, IAEA chief Hans Blix said in a letter to UN Secretary General  Boutros Boutros-Ghali the accelerated removal of fuel rods could make it  impossible "within days" for inspectors to determine whether weapons-grade  plutonium had been diverted for military use.
But Rodong Sinmun reaffirmed North Korea's "unique status" whereby the  hardline communist state was not fully subject to safeguards inspections under  the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).
The commentary, carried by the Korean Central News Agency and monitored  here, said North Korea had only temporarily suspended its March 1993 decision  to quit the nuclear control pact when the United States agreed to hold talks  on reconciliation and cooperation.
It said North Korea had frozen the operation of its graphite moderated  reactors, "suffering enormous economic losses", in the hope that the United  States would help its coversion into light water reactors as it had promised.
But the possibility of such cooperation appeared "dim" as North Korea-US  talks stalled, the newspaper said.
"In these conditions, we cannot allow ourselves to suffer unilateral  economic losses by freezing the operation," the commentary said.
"And to tell us to stop the replacement of fuel rods halfway is as good as  urging us to reconcile ourselves to the danger of radioactive leakage," it  added.
The commentary said the replacement of fuel rods at the experimental  reactor at Yongbyon was taking place "under the strict control of the  inspection cameras" installed by the IAEA and the fuel rods were placed "under  the surveillance of the agency as soon as they are taken out."
The IAEA says sampling of fuel rods is necessary to verify whether  plutonium had been taken from them.
