US Secretary of State Warren Christopher stepped  up efforts Monday to broker a Syrian-Israeli accord on the disputed Golan  Heights as the official press called for a rapid Israeli pullout from the  plateau.
A Western diplomat said Syria wanted an Israeli withdrawal to be completed  within three years while Israel was proposing a timetable of five-to-eight  years, starting with the return of three out of five Druze villages.
Christopher, who was due to leave for Israel on Monday, met Syrian Foreign  Minister Faruq al-Shara for one hour after holding talks with his advisors at  the US embassy "to evaluate the situation", a US official in his delegation  said.
He declined to make any comment after the meeting with Shara and went back  to the US embassy.
Informed sources said the talks focused on bilateral relations between  Washington and Damascus in the light of a US decision earlier this month to  keep Syria on a list of countries sponsoring terrorism.
"The Syrians have been very angry about this decision and they feel that  if the United States considers them 'terrorists' then it is not logical for  them to be discussing peace. How can you discuss peace with 'terrorists,'" one  source said.
The US envoy had four hours of talks with President Hafez al-Assad on  Sunday, in the second meeting between the two men in as many weeks.
A Syrian presidential spokesman said "the president heard the proposals  that Christopher brought with him and gave Syria's point of view on the peace  process." He did not elaborate.
The government Tishrin newspaper said Syria was willing to negotiate an  Israeli withdrawal from the Golan on condition Israel pledged a complete  pullout within an "acceptable and reasonable" timeframe.
"The necessary condition to help Christopher's mission to succeed is to  call on Israel to withdraw from the Golan immediately and rapidly according to  a well-defined agenda," Tishrin wrote.
A Western diplomat described the remarks as "positive"
"The situation is going in the right direction and we are optimistic," he  told AFP. But he ruled out a breakthrough in the near future.
"The gap between the two sides has been narrowed since Christopher's last  shuttle to the region two weeks ago but Israel and Syria are still wide  apart," he added.
Diplomats expected the United States to intensify its efforts to bridge  the gap between Israel and Syria, now that is has secured a peace accord  between the PLO and the Jewish state.
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has offered to return three of five  Druze villages on the heights as a first stage in a three-step withdrawal over  five-eight years from the plateau which Israel conquered in 1967.
Syria rejected the offer and was likely to turn down Israeli proposals for  a joint military commission to draft security arrangements for the heights.
"Damascus is not begging for peace," the English-language Syria Times said  in an editorial, reiterating Syrian insistence for a total Israeli withdrawal  from the Golan before peace with Israel.
On Tuesday Christopher is to visit the first autonomous Palestinian  enclave of Jericho to assess how self-rule is being implemented, becoming the  first senior foreign dignitary there since Israeli troops withdrew on Friday  to be replaced by Palestinian police.
