US and Japanese negotiators are likely to  announce an agreement Tuesday to resume deadlocked talks on bilateral trade, a  senior US official said Monday.
"An agreement is likely," said the official, adding "It will probably be  announced in the morning at 9:30 a.m. (1330 GMT)."
But the official refused to confirm press reports from Tokyo that the two  sides had agreed in principle, and Japanese Deputy Foreign Minister for  Economic Affairs Sakayuki Hayashi said that no accord had yet been struck.
"Not yet," Hayashi said when asked if an agreement had been reached, as he  arrived for his eighth session of talks with US negotiators since Thursday  shortly after 10 p.m. (0200 GMT).
US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor was not taking part in the talks  late Monday, but he said earlier as he left his office that "it is  conceivable" that the two sides could bridge their differences.
President Bill Clinton's chief economic advisor, Laura D'Andrea Tyson,  said  earlier that there would be a press statement Tuesday but refused to  comment on whether this meant the two sides had reached agreement.
Hayashi said he hoped that they could complete the talks by the end of the  day, and a US official indicated the two sides were putting the final touches  on an agreement.
But a Japanese official who asked not to be named said that the talks were  still continuing and that it was premature to talk about a press statement.
The two sides are trying to agree on ground rules for resuming trade  negotiations which collapsed in February in disagreement over how to measure  progress in opening Japan's markets and reducing its 60 billion dollar trade  surplus with the United States.
The current talks were originally scheduled to last only a day, but as  they were repeatedly prolonged it became clear that the two sides were holding  substantive discussions.
The talks here have been punctuated by long breaks, apparently for the  Japanese side to consult with Tokyo.
Japanese news agencies reported late Monday that the United States and  Japan had reached "a broad accord" to resume the negotiations in the near  future.
The agreement would not include reference to numerical targets, the  Japanese reports said.
The talks collapsed in February because of US insistence on numerical  targets to measure progress in opening Japan's markets, something Tokyo  rejected as managed trade and leading to quotas.
Kantor on Monday described as inaccurate a Wall Street Journal report that  the US side was easing its position and was prepared to abandon its insistence  on numerical targets to measure progress, something Japan had rejected as  managed trade and leading to quotas.
"We have not backed off," Kantor told reporters. "We have never asked for  market share."
Reports from Tokyo before the talks began suggested the Japanese team  could bring proposals for at least partial acceptance of numerical targets in  the government procurement sector.
The government procurement talks cover computers, supercomputers,  satellites, medical technology and telecommunications.
