Northern forces claimed further advances on the  southern power base of Aden on Friday, as Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh  ignored appeals for a ceasefire during the Moslem feast of Al-Adha.
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and PLO leader Yasser Arafat both called  on Saleh to lay down arms immediately to respect Al-Adha which starts on  Saturday following the annual pilgrimage to Mecca.
But despite the appeals Aden was hit late Thursday by the first two Scud  surface-to-surface missiles fired by northern forces in the civil war which  broke out on May 5.
The north warned: "Several military targets in Aden as well as the air  base are now within range of our missiles and artillery."
And a military spokesman in Sanaa said "the rest of the secessionist  forces (defending Aden) are on their way to crumbling."
The north has ruled out a ceasefire demanding that Saleh's southern rival  Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid surrender and stand trial for war crimes.
The two Scud missile attacks on Aden triggered panic among the city's more  than 500,000 residents, but the north said civilians had nothing to fear from  the northern push on Baid's power base.
One Scud landed on the outskirts of the airport and another in a  residential area, leaving four wounded.
According to the authorities in the capital, the south has fired 21  surface-surface missiles at northern cities, including a Scud attack on Sanaa  which killed 25 people last week.
Southern sources said Baid had left Aden, taking refugee on Tuesday in the  Hadhramaut province of eastern Yemen, on the border with Oman.
His flight prompted accusations from military spokesman in Sanaa that he  was a coward and had abandoned Aden to its fate.
"He has abandoned his men without a worry in the world over their fate to  carry his plan for separation."
But the spokesman said on Sanaa Radio that Aden citizens "should know that  the army of unity does not target civilians and that civilians will not be  harmed."
The main part of the south's air force, better trained than its northern  counterpart, has also been deployed in Hadhramaut, about 600 kilometres (360  miles) from Aden, Western diplomats said.
But as warplanes screamed out of Aden airport, rival army units were  Friday positioned at opposite ends of the sprawling southern air base of Al  Anad to the north, said a correspondent at the front.
Rival troops have been locked in a five-day struggle for control of the  base, 60 kilometres (36 miles) from Aden, with heavy clashes on Thursday,  according to wounded southern troops.
The north said they had seized 62 tanks and that their troops had reached  Al-Huta, 30 kilometres (18 miles) from Aden.
Conservative North Yemen and the former Marxist South merged in May 1990  but their armies were never integrated. A political dispute between Baid and  Saleh simmered for months before degenerating into war.
In the latest evacuation of foreigners, 267 people, mainly Yemenis,  arrived in the African port of Djibouti on board a Chinese trawler from Aden.  A Russian ship took the same route to evacuate more than 150 people.
But the UN agency for refugees UNRWA said it had not been able to send in  food or evacuate Somalis stranded at a camp near Aden, where at least 175  refugees were killed in crossfire at the start of the war.
