Hong Kong and US businessmen, fearful of losing  billions of dollars in trade, have launched the most intense lobbying campaign  in years to press President Bill Clinton to renew China's most favored nation  trade status.
The Hong Kong Trade Council has spent millions of dollars to lobby  Congress while blue-chip executives have power-lunched with congressmen and  deluged the White House with letters and calls, all demanding that China not  be stripped of MFN.
"It is more intense this year, because it is more uncertain than in other  years," said Louis Epstein, the Hong Kong Trade Council press officer in New  York, who declined to say exactly how much his agency was spending on the  effort.
Records with the Justice Department foreign registration office indicate  that Hong Kong, a British colony until 1997 when it reverts to Chinese rule,  has spent millions of dollars for high-profile law firms, lobbyists and trade  consultants to ensure MFN for China.
In years past, a Democratic-controlled Congress could threaten to yank MFN  unless China improved its human rights record with the certainty it could not  muster the votes to override Republican president George Bush's will to renew  it.
But this year, with Democrats controlling both the White House and  Congress, the fate of 40 billion dollars in trade, and a potential trade war  that could hurt US investments in one of Asia's most fertile economic areas,  hangs in the balance.
Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, a Kansas Republican, urged Clinton to  concede that he had erred in tying human rights to MFN, swallow hard and go  ahead and renew it rather than sacrifice such bounty.
"The president just ought to say, 'Listen, maybe I went too far, I made a  mistake. Let's go ahead and extend most favored nation status for China and  we'll continue to work on human rights."
But Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, a Maine Democrat, said Sunday  that he favored punishing China with trade sanctions unless it improves its  human rights record in the next two weeks.
"I think it will be a very close call," Mitchell said. But as of now, he  added, "the terms of the executive order have not been met. And therefore the  extension of the MFN status should be conditioned with some kind of sanctions."
Under Clinton's executive order, MFN would not be extended unless China  makes significant overall progress on such human rights issues as freeing  political prisoners, ending repression in Tibet and easing emigration.
If Clinton revokes MFN, or even saddles it with partial sanctions, US  business groups fear Beijing would retaliate in kind, restricting access to  one of the world's fastest growing markets for US goods.
China has been waging its public relations battle for MFN in large part by  proxy, through the economic powerhouse of Hong Kong which comes into Beijing's  fold in 1997 and through American businesses eager to hold on to current and  future profit.
"This is the number one issue for a lot of companies," said Julie Hughes,  spokeswoman for Associated Merchandising Corporation. Through imports and  exports, she said, "most business is somehow involved in the Chinese market."
The Business Coalition for US-China Trade sent Clinton a letter signed by  the heads of 478 major businesses to that effect, warning that loss of MFN  will permanently damage US competitiveness in the Pacific Rim.
Industrial heavyweights like IBM, ITT, Westinghouse, Caterpillar, Gruman,  Dupont, Motorola, Boeing and Xerox have written or made the pilgrimage to  Capitol Hill and the White House to protect their interests.
"We've rarely seen this many CEOs from major companies on Capitol Hill,"  said a press secretary for one of the key congressional defenders who asked  not to be indentified.
"It has been huge effort. There's been a real organized, high-powered  business campaign," said the staffer, adding the campaign has been bigger than  any trade issue he had seen before congress in recent years.
If the heat on Congress is rising to pass MFN, analysts said, it must be  white-hot on the White House where Clinton has not indicated which way he will  move on the matter by the June 3 deadline.
Asked about lobbying pressures on the White House, a National Security  Council press spokesman declined to comment at "this sensitive juncture,"  adding that officials were pursuing "quiet diplomacy on so delicate an issue."
