Chinese President Jiang Zemin has issued an  ominous warning that stability will be maintained at any cost, defending the  bloody suppression of the 1989 pro-democracy movement just weeks before its  fifth anniversary.
Without the "resolute measures" taken by the army on June 4, China would  not enjoy its current stability, said Jiang, whose remarks were carried on  state-run radio and the front pages of all major newspapers Friday.
By invoking the memory of June 4, Jiang has issued the strongest warning  to date that the government is willing to take all measures necessary --  including military force -- to eliminate any perceived threat to its position.
Since the beginning of the year, Chinese leaders have repeatedly stressed  the paramount importance of stability and their rhetoric has been backed up by  widespread arrests of dissidents and a law and order crackdown that has seen a  sharp increase in executions.
Jiang made the comments during a meeting here Thursday with visiting  Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohammad.
"A bad thing has been turned into a good thing," Jiang said, referring to  the 1989 unrest that at its height saw upwards of one million people taking to  the streets of Beijing in a single day.
"As a result, our reform and opening programme has forged ahead with  steadier, better and even quicker steps, and our advantages have been brought  into fuller play," Jiang said.
Jiang was communist party chief in Shanghai at the time of the Tiananmen  Square massacre and consequently emerged untainted by its bloody aftermath,  which makes his unequivocal endorsement of the military supression all the  more significant, according to analysts here.
"This is 100 percent a warning to anyone considering any open action to  mark the upcoming anniversary," a western diplomat said.
In the last six months, dozens of dissidents have been arrested across  China, effectively neutering prominent pro-democracy groups in Beijing,  Shanghai and the central city of Xian.
China's most celebrated dissident Wei Jingsheng is currently in detention  and could face fresh criminal charges.
"It is certainly the most explicit reference by a Chinese leader to June 4  in the past few years, and the fact that Jiang was the mouthpiece underscores  the severity of the message."
As well as the presidency, Jiang currently hold the posts of Communist  Party secretary general and chairman of the powerful Central Military  Commission.
"History shows that anything conducive to out national stability is good,"  Jiang told the Malaysian premier.
"In the past five years, China has enjoyed economic development, social  stability and improved the livelihood of the people, thanks to our consistent  efforts to take stability as an overriding priority," Jiang said.
"Facts prove this is absolutely correct."
The fear of social unrest has dominated policy at the very heart of the  Chinese leadership since the launch at the beginning of the year of  far-reaching economic reforms that have fuelled inflation and regional  economic disparities.
"While Jiang's timing reflects concern over the Tiananmen anniversary,  there is also clearly an implied general warning that the government will not  allow discontent to derail the reform process," the western diplomat said.
The authorities are especially concerned that rumblings in the countryside  over rising prices and low incomes could develop into a major challenge to the  communist party's rural base.
