The UN Commissioner for Human Rights on Friday  called for "effective international action" to prevent further atrocities in  Rwanda, where at least 200,000 people have died in an ethnic bloodbath.
"Effective international action to prevent a further escalation of human  rights violations is urgently required," commissioner Jose Ayala Lasso said.  The killings of civilians must stop immediately."
The central African country, which he visited earlier this month, had  plunged into a "human rights tragedy" entailing "the wanton killing of more  than 200,000 innocent civilians" since the death of president Juvenal  Habyarimana in a mysterious April 6 plane crash, he said.
In a report to go to a special meeting of the UN rights commission  convened for next Tuesday and Wednesday at Canada's request, Ayala Lasso said  the body should  appoint a "special rapporteur" to "examine all human rights  aspects of the situation including (the) causes and responsibilities for the  recent atrocities."
"The authors of the atrocities must be made aware that they cannot escape  personnal responsibility for criminal acts carried out ordered or condoned,"  he added in the report.
Some reports suggest that as many as half a million people have been  slaughtered in the tribal bloodletting and civil war, most of them civilians  from the Tutsi minority or Hutu opponents of the Hutu-majority government and  its armed militias.
"The commission on human rights may further wish to endorse the suggestion  that future efforts of the United Nations aimed at conflict resolution and  peace building in Rwanda be accompanied by a strong human rights component and  that this process be effectively supported by a comprehensive programme of  human rights assistance," he proposed.
In New York, a UN spokesman said 12 countries on Thursday announced plans  to contribute men or equipment to a new UN humanitarian mission in Rwanda, but  no firm offer or number of troops was released.
Canada said it would seriously examine supplying troops and equipment, but  France and Great Britain have spoken only about supplying equipment, UN  spokesman Fred Eckhard said.
Austrialia, Ghana, Senegal, Zimbabwe, the Netherlands, the Congo, Zambia,  Mali and Egypt are planning to send infantry soldiers, added Eckhard.
The United Nations is attempting to assemble 5,500 troops authorized by a  Security Counsel resolution Tuesday. The United States has voiced doubts about  the UN capacity to raise such a force rapidly.
Two members of the peacekeeping operations office left New York on  Wednesday for Rwanda to evaluate the situation there, said Eckhard.
Rebels of the mainly Tutsi Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and the  government have agreed to a UN humanitarian intervention but not to a military  bid to separate the warring sides.
