Russian President Boris Yeltsin has backed away  from a confrontation with the rebellious Caucasus republic of Chechnya,  watering down moves to take control of two disputed regions, a Chechen  official said Tuesday.
In a decree issued Monday, Yeltsin imposed a state of emergency on the  district of Sunja and direct Moscow rule on the region of Malgobek despite  warnings from Chechnya that such moves were tantamount to a declaration of war.
Chechen spokesman Movladi Udugov said Tuesday however that the published  decree was a watered-down version of a previous presidential order and that it  "did not for the moment provoke any special concern" on the part of the  Chechen leadership, ITAR-TASS reported.
Udugov said the final version of the decree listed the names of villages  that came under the special regime and that he agreed these localities were  part of neighboring Ingushetia, another autonomous Russian republic.
The territorial dispute over Sunja and Malgobek, both located west of the  Chechen capital of Grozny, erupted after the republic of Chechen-Ingushetia  was divided into two separate entities in 1991.
Chechnya, a tiny Moslem province in the northern Caucasus, subsequently  declared independence from Moscow in the fall of 1991 and has since rejected  all federal authority over its territory.
Yeltsin aides charge that Chechnya has become the epicenter of Russian  organized crime and a major drug and arms trafficking center which threatens  the stability of the entire Caucasus region.
Yeltsin's decree was ostensibly aimed at keeping a lid on tensions in  Ingushetia, where fighting broke out in October 1992 between ethnic Ingush and  Ossetians.
But Chechen officials claim Moscow is using instability in Ingushetia to  tighten the noose around Chechnya.
While conceding that Monday's decree did not pose an immediate threat to  Chechnya, Udugov said that imposing emergency rule in Sunja and Malgobek was  not justified and suggested that Yeltsin was being "forced into widening the  emergency zone so as to create tension with Chechnya."
Russia's upper house of parliament, the Federation Council, on Tuesday  approved Yeltsin's decree and Ingush President Ruslan Aushev said that the  moved did not pose a threat to neighboring Chechnya.
Lawmakers also voted to establish a parliamentary commission to travel to  the region on a fact-finding mission and report on the situation in the border  areas.
Tensions mounted earlier in the day when Chechen Foreign Minister  Shamseddin Yussef warned that the rebel leadership in Grozny would take  measures to rebuff any attempt by Moscow to move troops into the two disputed  districts, Interfax reported.
The row came two weeks after Yeltsin appointed a new nationalities  minister, Nikolai Yegorov, signalling the Kremlin's resolve to bring Chechnya  in line as it recently did with another breakaway republic, Tatarstan.
The strain in relations between Moscow and Grozny rose sharply Friday  after Dudayev escaped from a car-bomb attack which Chechen authorities claim  was staged by Russian secret services.
Three Chechen officials including the interior minister were killed in the  explosion and Dudayev's wife and son were hurt.
