Russian former vice president Alexander Rutskoi,  Boris Yeltsin's key rival and sworn enemy, urged the hardline opposition to  unite on Saturday to speed the restoration of the Soviet Union.
Rutskoi urged the "union of all opposition forces," saying together they  "were the only way to restore the state within the borders of the Soviet  Union," in a speech to an opposition congress held Saturday to map out a  common political strategy.
Rutskoi also proposed the formation of a shadow cabinet at a national  meeting at the end of September, and called for early elections, though did  not specify when nor which elections he meant.
A general election for the Duma, the lower house of parliament, is planned  at the end of next year and a presidential election in June 1996.
Saturday's meeting was the founding congress of an opposition alliance of  nationalists and die-hard communists set up informally in February with the  backing of leaders of last October's parliamentary revolt against Yeltsin. The  new alliance is called Entente for Russia.
Rutskoi, a leader in that revolt who spent four months in prison before  being freed on an amnesty, was among 300 delegates who took part in Saturday's  "National Council."
The meeting, which blasted Yeltsin's economic reform policies, was  expected to name Rutskoi as its leader and candidate in the June presidential  vote. But another participant, Russian Communist Party leader Gennady  Zyuganov, said the choice of a presidential candidate was not on Saturday's  agenda.
In his 20-minute speech, Rutskoi called the current political situation a  struggle between a "national opposition movement" and "a national treason  movement" -- the latter meaning the government and pro-reform parties.
Rutskoi, echoing other speakers, criticized what he called the "economic  destruction of the country," whose population today he said was "three percent  rich, seven percent living comfortably, 50 percent poor and 40 percent  wretched."
Rutskoi said "many people now understand that the destruction of the Soviet  Union and the military-industrial complex could not have taken place without  the help of certain foreign states."
He also spoke out against any rapprochement between Moscow and the North  Atlantic Treaty Organization, less than a week after Defense Minister Pavel  Grachev on Wednesday called for the creation of a "full-blooded strategic  relationship" between Russia and the Atlantic alliance.
Key Yeltsin opponents who were noticeably absent from Saturday's meeting  was Ruslan Khasbulatov, the former speaker of the dissolved Supreme Soviet,  and the former head of the constitutional court, Valery Zorkin, who had been  announced to attend.
Zorkin's aide, Vladislav Sychev, told AFP that Zorkin had received threats  from the presidential administration warning him against attending the  congress.
Among those present however were film director Stanislav Govorukhin,  ultra-nationalist deputy Sergei Baburin, former speaker of the old communist  parliament Anatoly Lukyanov, who was one of the orchestrators of the failed  Soviet putch of August 1991, and former foreign trade minister Sergei Glaziyev.
Glaziyev said the key aim of Entente for Russia "is to save the fatherland  from destructive trends of the state and the economy," citing what he called  the "dramatic" slump in industrial production of 25 percent in the first  quarter of 1994 against the same period last year.
The delegates at the congress, meeting in a hall which was frormerly part  of the Russian parliament, all refused to sign a pact in April between Yeltsin  and the opposition that was aimed at putting an end to the political strife  that has plagued his presidency.
