Britain, Germany and the United States Monday gave  their backing to Ukraine in its row with the secessionist Crimean peninsula,  insisting that Russia's largest neighbour remain one country.
Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin held talks with his Ukrainian  counterpart Efim Zviagilsky in Moscow but the pair failed to defuse the  tension in the secessionist republic.
Meanwhile, unconfirmed reports circulated of a military build-up in the  mainly Russian-speaking republic following Friday's decision by the Crimean  parliament to restore a 1992 constitution, seen by Kiev as tantamount to a  declaration of independence.
The Ukrainian parliament responded by giving the local legislature until  next Monday to reverse its decision.
On a visit to Moscow, British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said he had  received assurances from Russia that it would not intervene to support  Crimea's drive to secede from Ukraine.
Hurd, who discussed the Crimean crisis during talks Sunday and Monday with  Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, said: "I am satisfied that Russia has  no policy of intervention on this issue."
"We believe as the Russian government believes that Crimea is a part of  Ukraine and the sovereignty of Ukraine over Crimea is not in question," Hurd  told a news conference.
"Any dispute is a matter for the government of Ukraine to settle with  those concerned," he added.
In Bonn, German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel issued a statement calling  on Crimea to stay within Ukraine.
"The integrity and independence of Ukraine must not be put in question by  any party," Kinkel said. "The territorial integrity of Ukraine, like that of  other European countries, is inviolable, as a guarantee of stability and  peaceful relations in Europe," he said.
Meanwhile, the ITAR-TASS news agency reported that US Secretary of State  Warren Christopher sent a message to his Ukrainian counterpart Anatoly Zlenko,  thanking Ukraine for its peaceful approach in the crisis.
Washington reaffirmed its attachment to Ukrainian territorial integrity  within its current borders, the Russian agency said.
Hurd said that the conflict with Crimea should be resolved in line with  principles of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, which  exclude the use of force, and stated that there should be "a dialogue as to  what form of autonomy Crimea should have" within Ukraine.
Ukraine has appealed to the United Nations for assistance in resolving the  crisis which Russian officials have warned could degenerate into war.
The situation was quiet in Crimea Monday though reports continued to come  in of troop movements on the peninsula.
Ukrainian deputy prime minister Valeri Shmarov said that the discussions  in Moscow between the Russian and Ukrainian premiers centred on the  long-running question of the status of the Black Sea fleet, based at  Sevastopol in Crimea.
The two delegations at the last minute cancelled a planned press  conference and said their talks would continue Tuesday.
Russian President Boris Yeltsin on Thursday warned his Ukrainian  counterpart Leonid Kravchuk against "all use of force," against Crimea,  asserting that "neither Ukraine nor Russia should meddle" in Crimean affairs.
On Monday, Yeltsin's aid Sergei Filatov, criticised "the irresponsible  politicians in Ukraine who seek to gain advantage from the situation by  delaying the presidential election."
Kravchuk, who is suffering in the opinion polls, has frequently called for  a delay in the presidential polls scheduled for June 26 and said Saturday he  would call for "full powers" if the crisis in Crimea worsened.
