British ministers are set to discuss Thursday  privatisation of a large part of the Post Office, raising at least one billion  pounds (one and a half billion dollars), government sources said Tuesday.
The sell-off to members of the public and Post Office staff would be the  biggest privatisation of John Major's premiership -- and the one that his  predecessor Margaret Thatcher vetoed.
Details of the plans were leaked late Tuesday in what has been interpreted  as a bid to sound out public and parliamentary reaction before a final  decision is taken -- and they caused immediate controversy.
The plans would liberate the Post Office from strict treasury control and  allow it to compete more freely with the threat of businesses like the Dutch  post office which has a subsidiary in Britain offering cut rates to transfer  bulk mail.
German, Swedish and New Zealand post offices are also said to be taking  business from the British Post Office.
But General secretary of the Union of Communication Workers (UCW) Alan  Johnson said that, while there was a clear need to give the service far  greater commercial feedom, it could be done without selling it to the private  sector.
A survey commissioned by the UCW canvassed 52 Tory Members of Parliament  and found that 30% wished privatisation to be either slowed or stopped. This  would easily translate into a parliamentary defeat for the ruling Conservative  government, according to the union.
Johnson added: "This announcement will prove to be political and electoral  suicide for the government. All indicators show that privatisation of the Post  Office would be monumentally unpopular with the British people."
The form of privatisation believed to be favoured by President of the  Board of Trade, Michael Heseltine, is to sell 51 percent of the government's  stake in the Post Office's letter and parcel delivery services, the Royal Mail  and Parcel Force divisions.
It is thought he would want to keep in public ownership the Counters  Division, which runs Britain's network of sub-post offices.
The partial sell-off represents a compromise designed to heal a reported  cabinet split which has held up the long-awaited decision, following a  two-year review of the Post Office's future.
Downing Street said Tuesday the options, which have been under discussion  for months, had still not been completed and there would be no announcement  until after June 9 European elections.
Former Conservative prime minister Margaret Thatcher, although a fervent  exponent of privatisation, gave a pledge that "the Royal Mail would not be  privatised."
She believed the public would not accept the privatisation because of the  Royal Mail's central role in national life.
She is also said to have held back because of mail's associations with  royalty, but when the review started it was made clear that whoever ran the  Post Office, Queen Elizabeth II's head would remain on stamps.
