The battle for the Rwandan capital Kigali between  rebels and government forces raged on Friday as the United Nations said aid  workers had discovered 88 bodies of victims of a new massacre in the south.
Abdul Kabia, spokesman of the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda (MINUAR),  said relief workers found the recent victims of Rwanda's bloodletting on  Thursday (eds: correct) in the Butare region.
"We thought that massacres in the Butare region had stopped, but it seems  they are continuing," Kabia said.
He was unable to say who had carried out the slaughter, which was another  instance of more than a month of genocide among the minority Tutsi people and  the majority Hutus, estimated to have claimed almost 200,000 lives.
Early Friday, shellfire and gunfire of every kind could be heard in the  capital of the central African highland nation, apparently coming mainly from  rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) positions near the Meridien hotel.
Small arms fire went on into the day in several parts of the strife-torn  city, while Kabia said there was shooting and occasional mortar fire around  the road leading out towards the airport.
Pro-government forces were also fighting the predominantly Tutsi RPF on  Friday at Ruhengeri in the northwest of the country and at Bugesera in the  south, Kabia added.
Rwanda plunged back into civil war between the RPF, drawn mainly from the  Tutsi minority, and the Hutu-dominated army and pro-government militias after  Hutu president Juvenal Habyarimana was killed in a suspected rocket attack on  his plane on April 6.
Aid agencies estimate that some 200,000 people have been slain in  wholesale ethnic bloodshed during the weeks that followed, amid a massive  humanitarian tragedy.
Hundreds of thousands of others have fled abroad and face dire conditions  in camps in Tanzania, Burundi and other neighbouring countries, while some  20,000 people are prisoners sheltering in a church, a stadium and other  buildings in their own capital, in need of food and terrified for their lives.
Late Thursday, French former minister for humanitarian action and founder  of the charity Medecins sans Frontieres (MSF; Doctors without Borders) Bernard  Kouchner arrived in Kigali by road from the Ugandan capital Kampala.
Kouchner met rebel leader Paul Kagame, who has expressed his determination  to take the capital, and said he also planned to meet other Rwandan leaders as  part of an assessment mission.
With the evacuation of the wounded, orphans and displaced people at the  centre of his preoccupations, Kouchner said: "I'm here wearing my own hat.  That's to say none at all."
Last month, 170 injured people, mainly Tutsis, were slaughtered in a  Butare hospital by members of the Hutu presidential guard. Hutu militia forces  early in May killed 13 Red Cross volunteers and 21 orphans who had been taken  from Kigali to Butare in the belief that they would be safer there.
UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali has asked the UN Security  Council substantially to reboost UNAMIR, which was originally sent to help  implement a peace signed in August last year but cut back from 2,500 to just  400 men after the renewed violence broke out.
