The film censorship board has decided that the  Oscar-winning film "Schindler's List" may be shown uncut in Thai theaters  despite nude love-making scenes which contravene local regulations.
The board voted Thursday to lift a ban imposed earlier this month, and the  film will be shown for the first time in Bangkok Saturday, a spokesman for  distributors United International Pictures, Surachit Chanowan, said.
In a 6-4 vote after hours of debate, the board decided that a 10-second  nude sex scene was not after all objectionable as no sex organs were shown and  it did not provoke sexual excitement, a police official told AFP Friday.
The official noted that board members voting against showing the film  uncut included the press association, despite recent calls in the local press  to update Thailand's 1920s-era censorship regulations.
Others voting against represented the defense ministry, the national  intelligence agency and the Thai movie confederation, the official said.
Steven Spielberg's epic of a German industrialist who smuggles more than  1,000 Jews to safety during World War II, winner of seven Academy Awards, ran  into trouble in several countries when Spielberg refused to allow any cuts.
Malaysia banned "Schindler's List," then grudgingly relented. The  Philippines censorship board voted to cut certain scenes until President Fidel  Ramos issued a decree to show the film in its entirety.
Indonesia, where some Moslem organizations contend the film demonstrates  morals and actions which run counter to the Indonesian way of life, remains  undecided.
In Thailand, where explicit sex shows can be seen in many night spots,  films are routinely cut to meet censorship standards or a 90-minute time  frame. Scenes of violence generally escape the cuts, but scenes with nudity do  not.
Another Oscar-winning film now making the rounds in Bangkok, "The Piano",  is being shown at its full length, but with scenes involving nudity smeared  into obscurity with petroleum jelly.
