Palestinians raised their flag  over Jericho on Friday as 27 years of Israeli occupation came to an end and  Palestine Liberation Army soldiers poured in to police the autonomous enclave.
The Israelis handed over a series of buildings and a military base to 60  Palestinian officers in pre-dawn darkness on Friday to the cheers of a small  crowd who stayed up all night.
The Israeli flag was lowered and the red, green, white and black  Palestinian emblem run up at the sites. Women ululated with joy and the crowd  swelled as the news spread through the ancient oasis on the edge of the Dead  Sea.
Four Palestinian flags fluttered on the roof of the central police  station, which until Thursday had been the target of stone-throwing children  and the center of clashes with Israelis soldiers.
Now children peered through the metal fence, talking to Palestinian  soldiers within for the first time.
"The Israeli flag had been brought down by the time we came in," said  Ahmed Abu Saadeh, a policeman who crossed over earlier in the morning.
"There were no more Israeli soldiers left, we didn't shake hands with any  of them."
The Palestinians also took over the post office, a court house, a military  administration building and a nearby synagogue.
The Israelis later handed over the main administration compound in an  official ceremony.
"If all goes well, all the Jericho region will be in Palestinian hands by  Friday afternoon," said Colonel Herzl, a member of the commmittee whose full  name was withheld for security reasons.
Israeli soldiers were stationed a kilometer (half a mile) away, at the  junction of a road they will patrol Friday with the Palestinian police.
At the same time, 386 policemen began crossing into Jericho from Jordan  following 20 officers arrived Thursday, and 40 others in the early hours of  Friday.
The first buses carrying the Palestine Liberation Army units, who were  formerly based in Iraq, crossed the Allenby Bridge at the border with Jordan  in the morning.
They were being checked at the Israeli post on the West Bank side of the  bridge.  Another four buses were expected to follow, said Adel Barahmi, a  Palestinian employee at the border.
The Palestinian police force is due to have 9,000 men, 7,000 of them from  PLA units scattered across the Arab world, in line with the autonomy deal  signed on May 4. The PLA is the Palestine Liberation Organisation's regular  army.
Israeli Colonel A, told state radio: "As soon as we have the green light  it will only take us a few hours to pull out. We will withdraw before sunset  if all goes well."
The radio said Israeli citizens would no longer be allowed to enter  Jericho carrying arms.
The Palestinian police took control of the southern Gaza Strip on Friday  as about 300 more reinforcements arrived and the Israelis pulled out of their  last bastion.
"Everything south of the river is in the hands of the Palestinian police,"  a senior Israeli military official said.
The river, known as Wadi Gaza, cuts across the Strip south of the Jewish  settlement of Netzarim. Under the autonomy deal Israeli forces however remain  in charge of security for the 4,000 settlers, most of whom live in the south  of Gaza.
Security installations at the Gaza town of Khan Yunes were handed over in  the night, the army said. It was the last town in the south to be evacuated  following Deir El Balah, Bureij, Nusseirat and Rafah.
Before dawn the army handed over the military administration, border  police and military command buildings in Khan Yunes to 30 policemen who had  just entered the Strip from Egypt.
Facilities in Gaza City were to be handed over on Sunday, PLO officials  said, and transfer of authority on the Strip completed by Wednesday.
Palestinian police chief Nasr Yussef said: "We have the feeling that we  are finally in our own country."
Unlike the overcrowded Gaza Strip with a population of nearly 800,000, the  Jericho police are taking over a quiet oasis of 15,000 people, known as the  world's oldest and lowest town at 250 metres (825 feet) below sea level.
