US Secretary of State Warren  Christopher met Palestinian leaders in the newly-autonomous enclave of Jericho  for the first time on Tuesday amid tight security imposed by the new police  force.
The secretary was the first foreign dignitary to tour the West Bank oasis  since Israeli forces pulled out on Friday in line with the PLO autonomy deal.
He met a delegation led Faisal Husseini, who will sit on the  self-governing authority for the Gaza Strip and Jericho, at the new police  headquarters.
Armed Palestinian police lined both sides of the road and US security men  threw a cordon round the secretary who told reporters he was "very thrilled"  to visit the West Bank oasis.
"It's a tremendous opportunity to come here where a declaration of  principles has been translated into practice," he said as a boy scout band  struck up.
"I want to tell our Palestinian friends that they are not alone. We in the  international community are with them," Christopher said as he went into the  talks. The Palestinians would be helped to build their infrastructure, he  pledged.
The secretary was later to tour the ruins of Hisham's Palace, built in the  eight century, and today set in fields on the edge of the town, the lowest in  the world at 250 metres below sea level (840 feet) and reputed to be the  oldest.
He met Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in Jerusalem on Monday night after  arriving from Syria with reactions to Israel's latest peace package, and the  two men were scheduled to have further talks on Tuesday.
The secretary was also due to see Foreign Minister Shimon Peres.
"Yes, there are (Syrian) reactions to proposals that are going back and  forth," the secretary told reporters on the flight to Tel Aviv after meetings  in Damascus with President Hafez al-Assad and Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara.
The visit to Syria came just two weeks after Christoper took Israel's  peace package to Assad -- a phased withdrawal linked to security arrangements  on the strategic plateau captured in the 1967 Middle East war in return for  total peace.
"Each element is scrutinized with very great care," the secretary said.  The two sides were "exchanging ideas and probing each other on very early  aspects but very important aspects."
"We are at the beginning of a very serious process," said a US official  who refused to be named. They are clearly seriously engaged in this process."
The official said Assad still insisted on total Israeli withdrawal from the  Golan, but noted that the Syrian press had been "more positive" over the  weekend.
The official Syrian press called for a rapid Israeli withdrawal from the  Golan Heights, urging an "acceptable and reasonable" pullout timetable.
