Deadly errors that led to a string of fatal air  crashes have plagued the US armed forces even as the Pentagon prepares to  release results of an inquiry into one of its most embarrassing blunders, the  downing of two US helicopters in northern Iraq by US fighters.
Twenty-six people died during an April 14 international protection force  mission when US air-to-air missiles slammed into two Blackhawk helicopters  flying across the Kurdish zone of Iraq.
The Pentagon is expected to announce in mid-May that the pilots of the two  US F-16 fighters confused the Blackhawks with Soviet-made Iraqi Hind  helicopters.
Three weeks earlier, on March 23, twenty-three people were killed at Pope  Air Base in North Carolina when an F-16 and a C-130 cargo plane landed by  accident on the same runway.
Less than one week before the Pope crash, a C-130 gunship heading out of  Kenya on a mission to support the US withdrawal from Somalia crashed into the  sea, killing seven. Pilot error was likely the cause, according to preliminary  reports.
The General Accounting Office (GAO), the investigative arm of Congress,  released a separate report criticizing the lack of training for US Air Force  Reserve officers. In addition, the GAO said the reserve fleet is composed of  aging aircraft.
The report comes at a time when the Pentagon is relying more and more on  the reserves to offset its main force losses stemming from budget cuts.
According to James Hessman, an editor of the military magazine "Sea  Power," the annual Pentagon budget cuts could hurt training and preparation  levels.
"All the nation's armed services have been deferring, downgrading, or  selectively abandoning modernization programs essential to future readiness,"  said Hessman.
A report submitted to Congress at the beginning of the year, however, said  that the armed forces remained relatively well prepared but "less than in the  past."
The 1995 budget proposal reflects the preoccupation of the new secretary  of defense, William Perry, with concerns about biting into funds earmarked for  training and equipment upgrades.
Funding for this modernization was up 92.9 billion dollars out of a total  Defense Department budget of 263.7 billion dollars in 1995, 4.9 billion  dollars more than 1994. The 1995 fiscal year begins October 1.
For the Pentagon, this should help to implement the "Bottom Up Review," a  major Defense Department study conducted last year to chart budget  requirements if the Pentagon wanted to be prepared to conduct two Gulf  War-sized operations simultaneously.
The ability to conduct such operations is not necessarily assured,  however. Air force officials acknowledged recently during congressional  hearings that troop transport problems could arise under such circumstances.
The author of the report, defense specialist John Collins, said it would  be practically impossible to support two campaigns at once. He added it would  already be difficult to respond to a regional conflict without the help of US  allies.
Moreover, the fact that only one of four bombs carried by an US F/A-18 hit  its target and exploded during an April 11 NATO raid over Bosnian Serb  positions is particularly disquieting. Of the other three, one bomb would not  release and two hit without exploding.
"The defense industrial base as a whole could become the Department of  Defense's Achilles heel," said Hessman.
Above all, according to Collins, the focus put for many years on  peace-keeping missions, the war against drugs or humanitarian assistance, have  forced the armed forces to put more of their training and modernization funds  into financing these operations.
This was the case with Somalia and Bosnia, and the 300 million dollars  allocated for 1995 peacekeeping operations does not seem to hint at any shift  in this trend.
