Japan and the United States have agreed to work  together to eradicate polio worldwide by the end of the century, officials  said Tuesday.
The two countries also unveiled an ambitious joint program to develop a  magic-bullet vaccine capable of protecting children from all preventable  diseases.
The projects were agreed to as part of the framework of talks between  Tokyo and Washington on trade and cooperation in solving a slate of global  problems, ranging from population control to saving the environment.
The latest plans are: polio eradication and vaccine development;  anti-narcotics initiatives; biodiversity protection; study of global climate  changes; preservation of wetlands; agreement on intellectual property rights  and sharing of research.
Timothy Wirth, the US undersecretary of state for global affairs, said the  joint projects showed the two economic superpowers could work in tandem,  despite rocky negotiations on how to narrow Japan's gaping 60-billion dollar  trade surplus with the United States.
Japan's deputy foreign minister for economic affairs, Sadayuki Hayashi,  said the plan was "future-looking, it is longterm. We are cooperating together  for the benefit of the world."
The details, such as how much each country pays into the programs, have  yet to be worked out. But an announcement on exactly what the two countries  hope to achieve is expected next month at the G-7 meeting in Naples, Italy,  said Wirth.
Wirth said Japan and the United States would build on successful  anti-polio drives in the Caribbean and western Pacific to eradicate the  disease altogether in the next six years.
"We believe that agressive cooperation between the two and the careful  manufacture and distribution ... of the vaccine can lead to the eradication of  polio worldwide by the year 2000," Wirth said.
The goal of creating a vaccine that would immunize children against a slew  of diseases is also feasible, Wirth said.
"We're beginning to put our capabilities together," he said. "The promise  of this is great enough that both of our agencies felt that this was something  we not only should embark upon, but something that we could together announce  today."
Negotiations on how to pay for the anti-polio and vaccine programs will  take place Wednesday, Wirth said. Work will be carried out in Japan and the  United States, involving both public and private sector researchers, he said.
Polio is an acute viral infection that mainly strikes children.
The virus enters the central nervous system and damages the spine and  brain. It can paralyze and kill its victim. Many people suffer no symptoms but  can spread the disease.
