FIA president Max Mosley announced revolutionary  measures in Formula One here on Friday hours after drivers joined together to  form a pressure group to improve safety.
Cars will need to be radically adapted by the grand prixs in Spain (May  29), Canada (June 12) and Germany (July 31).
The sport is still reeling from the accident of Austrian Karl Wendlinger  on Thursday, which has left him in a deep coma, and the deaths of Roland  Ratzenberger and Ayrton Senna two weeks ago at the San Marino grand prix.
At a press conference, Mosley ordered a reduction in the size of the  diffusers and a change of the frontwing -- both measures will reduce downforce  and cut speed -- by May 29.
By June 12, more side protection must be installed in driver cockpits to  protect the driver's head. And the weight of the car will be increased by  25kg. Air boxes, behind and above the driver's head, will be banned.
The front suspension must also be strengthened to ensure wheels do not  fall off. The cockpit will also be lengthened, and special fuel will be banned  with only pump fuel from a list of 100 petrol stations allowed.
By the German grand prix on July 31, all the measures due to be introduced  in 1995, particularly in the area of aerodynamics, will be in force six months  early.
Cars will no longer be flat on the bottom, but will have a "step" in them,  according to Mosley. This would mean a speed reduction of cars, particularly  at corners. Adaptations to front and rear wings will also be introduced with  the same aim.
Engine power, still according to Mosley, will be reduced from 800 horse  power to about 600 by use of a fuel-flow valve. The valve will control the  flow of fuel to the engine, therefore reducing a car's power without reducing  engine size. Finally, to allow for all these changes, the weight of the cars  will be increased from 575kg to 625kg.
On Sunday's Monaco grand prix itself, organisers said it was set to go  ahead, although drivers and the Principality's Prince Rainier may have a  change of heart should Wendlinger's condition deteriorate.
The Austrian was still in a deep coma on Friday, with one doctor saying  that the next 48 hours are likely to be decisive.
All the current world championship drivers were at the pressure group  meeting, along with three currently without a team -- Britain's Derek Warwick,  Frenchman Patrick Tambay and Italian Riccardo Patrese.
Such a drivers' group had been set up during the 1970s, but petered out in  the early 1980s. Drivers have been without any formal representation within  the FIA for several years.
