International talks called by a four-way  contact group on a ceasefire and a territorial division of Bosnia wound up in  this Alpine hideaway Thursday after two days of closed-door discussions.
A diplomat close to the talks here said earlier in the day that  international negotiators were considering presenting a take-it-or-leave-it  peace plan to Bosnia's belligerants, as none of the warring parties had given  ground over their opposition to European Union (EU) proposals to carve up the  country.
But a Croat press source said the Moslems and Bosnian Croats were ready to  negotiate on the basis of the EU territorial division plan.
The diplomat said the contact group of European, UN, US and Russian  negotiators were ready to try to impose a territorial solution on the warring  parties, presumably by threatening to withdraw peacekeeping forces from Bosnia  if the new plan was rejected.
In Geneva, the Bosnian Serbs' self-styled "foreign minister" Aleksa Buha,  said meanwhile that the group had proposed another round of talks to be held  in Talloires in about 10 days.
That meeting, which was not confirmed by the contact group itself, might  be attended by Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic, Buha added.
Buha said he was very satisfied with talks in Talloires, calling them a  "success" that had "renewed" the diplomatic process.
Speaking in French, Buha said the Serb delegation, led by Momcilo  Krajisnik, speaker of the breakaway Serb parliament, had spoken about "the  need to put an end to the fighting throughout the country."
Buha said: "I think the contact group accepted our opinion as regards ...  territorial divisions ... We must consider the wealth, quality and viability  of the territories" in question.
Buha said the Serb delegation would return to Bosnia Thursday evening.
There was no immediate reaction to the talks Thursday from the Moslem or  Bosnian Croat side.
But the diplomat, here who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the  negotiations between the contact group and Bosnia's Croats, Moslems and Serbs  "did not bring any new elements," despite earlier reports of progress.
"Each party is sticking to their earlier position, whereby the idea of  considering a more authoritarian approach," the source said.
He said Wednesday's talks focused exclusively on constitutional issues and  the territorial carve-up of Bosnia. "There was no mention of the fighting," he  said.
The contact group held separate talks with each of the Bosnian  delegations, the source and Buha said.
There have been no official comments on progress, but a member of the  Croat press contingent who said he had access to the meeting reported  Wednesday that the Croats and Moslems, who have agreed to form a federation,  had dropped demands for more territory.
He said they had agreed to negotiate on the basis of a European Union plan  backed by the contact group which would allot 51 percent of Bosnian territory  to the Moslem-Croat federation and 49 percent to the Serbs.
The Moslems and Croats now control 30 percent of the republic's territory  and have been demanding 58 percent. Bosnian Serbs control the remaining 70  percent.
France and Britain, the main providers of troops for the UN peacekeeping  operation, have warned they might pull their soldiers out of Bosnia by the end  of the year if no serious progress is made towards restoring peace.
At a meeting in Paris Thursday, French Defense Minister Francois Leotard  and British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd expressed their "total agreement"  that the Bosnia should not be exempted from a UN arms embargo against the  former Yugoslavia, a French defence ministry source said.
