A brief history of the World Cup:
1904: The first meeting of FIFA takes place in Paris, without the British  associations, and awards itself the exclusive right to stage a world  championship.
1920: FIFA Congress accepts idea of a World Cup in principle. Jules Rimet,  the Frenchman credited with the idea of an international competition, becomes  FIFA president.
1924: The idea discussed in detail by FIFA at the Paris Olympics. Uruguay  win the Olympic football gold medal.
1926: FIFA congress accepts that growth of professionalism means football  can no longer be confined to the Olympics.
1928: Uruguay retain their Olympic title and bid, along with Italy,  Holland, Spain and Sweden to host the first World Cup in 1930. Uruguay won by  offering to pay all expenses for visiting teams.
1930: Only France of the major European nations made the trip to  Montevideo. The United States, with a team of largely British professionals,  reached the semi-finals, where they were beaten 6-1 by Argentina. Uruguay won  the final 4-2, a victory that prompted a riot outside the Uruguyan consulate  in Buenos Aires.
1934: In reaction to the Europeans snubbing their tournament, Uruguay did  not defend their title in Italy. The whole tournament took place in an  atmosphere of jingoistic nationalism encouraged by the fascist dictator Benito  Mussolini. Italy triumphed over the favourites Austria in the semi-finals and  went on to beat Czechoslovakia 2-1 after extra-time in the final.
1938: Europe was on the final countdown to war when the third World Cup  was staged in France. Austria had been taken over by Germany and their players  obliged to play for the third Reich while Spain was embroiled in civil war.  Uruguay again declined to come, as did Argentina. Brazil however reached the  semi-finals where they lost to Italy. The Italians went on to beat Hungary 4-2  in the final and retain the trophy.
1946: The British associations join FIFA.
1950: The World Cup was now known as the Jules Rimet Trophy in honour of  the man who guarded it under his bed in Paris during the war.
England's first World Cup ends in humiliation when they lose 1-0 to the  United States. Haitian-born Larry Gaetjens scored the winner.
The title was decided by the last second round group match in which  Uruguay defeated Brazil 2-1 watched by the largest ever crowd of 193,850 in  the newly-built Maracana stadium.
1954: West Germany won for the first time in Switzerland but only after  their centre-half Werner Liebrich had severely injured the Hungarian maestro  Ferenc Puskas in the first round. Hungary, who a year earlier had ushered in a  new era in football with their 6-3 thrashing of England at Wembley, struggled  to the final where a half-fit Puskas returned to action. He managed to score  but German strength prevailed for a 3-2 victory. Hungary had won the first  clash 8-3.
The best-remembered match is the notorious Battle of Berne quarter-final  between Brazil and Hungary. Three players were ordered off for violent play  that spilled over into a fullscale punchup in the dressing rooms afterwards.
1958: A 17-year-old called Pele exploded onto the world stage as Brazil,  introducing the revolutionary concept of a 4-2-4 formation, won for the first  time. It was also the first time a side generally acknowledged as the best in  the world had won the trophy.
Pele scored twice in the 5-2 final win over the Swedish hosts but the  winger Garrincha, 'the little bird', was as instrumental in the Brazilian  triumph. The abiding image of the tournament is the jubilant Brazilians doing  a lap of honour while carrying a huge Swedish flag.
France's Just Fontaine scored four goals in the third place play-off  victory over Germany to take his tally for the tournament to 13, a record that  seems unlikely ever to be broken.
