Japan Airlines (JAL) Ltd. announced Tuesday its  third consecutive annual loss as its arch-rival All Nippon Airways (ANA) Co.  Ltd. said profits had evaporated and it was only expecting to break even this  year.
A continued slump in the airline market at home and overseas also caused  increased loss for Japan Air System Co. Ltd. (JAS), the nation's third-largest  carrier following JAL and ANA.
All three airlines suffered declines in revenue due to severe price  competition and weak demand for domestic and international fights amid the  prolonged recession in Japan and Europe.
JAL announced a pre-tax loss of 26.2 billion yen (254 million dollars) --  although this was an improvement on its previous year's loss of 53.8 billion  yen.
The nation's leading airline said revenue fell five percent to 982.3  billion yen, depressed by price competition on international fights and a  further decline in business travel.
"Continued recession in the Japanese and Western European economies  considerably affected the market," the company said.
"In addition, price competition among airline companies became more severe  in the year, affecting demand for international fights," it said.
However, the carrier forecast a pre-tax profit of one billion yen in the  current financial year on revenue of 1.006 trillion yen.
"JAL expects improvements in the Japanese economy in the latter half of  the current financial year, with improvement in airline traffic demand," it  said.
International passenger revenue fell 6.2 percent to 477.8 billion yen,  while international cargo sales were down 10.9 percent to 103.1 billion yen.
Revenue from domestic passenger flights edged down 1.3 percent to 259.1  billion yen, with domestic cargo sales falling 0.3 percent to 19.7 billion yen.
ANA said Tuesday pre-tax earnings plunged 82.1 percent to 2.84 billion yen  in the last financial year following a 29.3 percent fall the previous year.
The major airline said revenue fell 4.2 percent to 774.8 billion yen with  a net loss of 2.91 billion yen, reversing a net profit of 2.4 billion yen the  previous year.
"The decline in profitability resulted mainly from weak demand in Japan,  which reduced passenger volume on domestic routes," the company said.
"Earnings reflected the growing price-sensitivity among customers on both  domestic and international routes. Profitability suffered especially from a  downturn in business travel,"the airline said.
ANA, which forecast much more severe business conditions for the time  being, expects to break even this year, which ends March 1995, on revenue of  807.2 billion yen.
"Business circumstances are expected to remain difficult for a while," a  company spokesman said. "It takes more time for us to see recovery."
ANA's revenue from international passenger flights fell three percent to  103.9 billion yen, but sales of international cargo businesses gained 3.7  percent to 14 billion yen.
Domestic passenger flight sales were down five percent to 583.3 billion  yen, with revenue from domestic cargo services edging downward 1.5 percent to  26.5 billion yen.
Meanwhile, JAS had a pre-tax profit of 12.7 billion yen from a 4.8 billion  yen loss the previous year.
JAS said its revenue edged down 0.2 percent to 271.5 billion yen with an  operating loss of 10.9 billion yen, widening the previous year's loss of 5.2  billion yen.
