Japan is expected to fight tooth  and nail against a proposal to ban whaling around the South Pole when the 46th  meeting of the International Whaling Commission opens here Monday.
France has proposed that all whale hunting be banned south of the 40th  parallel to prevent the extinction of 11 whale species, including the blue  whale and the humpbacked. Representatives of about 40 countries are at the  four-day closed-door meeting at this Pacific resort.
Japan, backed by several Caribbean islands that receive Japanese foreign  aid, is expected to fight the plan, as they did at last year's International  Whaling Commission meeting in Kyoto. Tokyo failed, however, in its bid to  partially lift an indefinite ban on the hunting of large whales enacted in  1988.
Japan argued in 1993 that continued hunting of the minke whale, the last  whale not considered endangered, did not put the species at risk. Japanese  commercial whalers hunt the whale for its meat.
Since the commission needs a 75 percent majority to put into effect a  resolution, Japan was able to block the sanctuary proposal last year by  gaining some votes against and a few abstentions.
Although the environmental organization Greenpeace said it was optimistic  the sanctuary plan would be approved, other whale advocates indicated that  they were less than certain.
Japan is able to count on support from Santa Lucia, Saint Vincent and  Grenada, all of which receive aid from Tokyo, as well as absentions by Norway  and South Korea. Dominica, sources here said, was believed to be reconsidering  its position and supporting the sanctuary.
Ten countries have come out firmly in favor of the sanctuary: Argentina,  Australia, Britain, Denmark, France, Ireland, Mexico, Monaco, United States  and New Zealand.
Cliff Curtis, coordinator of Greenpeace's whaling campaign, predicted that  the whaling sanctuary would be approved. Between 28 and 30 countries would  vote; 22 to 24 would cast ballots in favor of the sanctuary and six to eight  against, he said.
The British-based International Whaling Commission, founded in 1946 to  regulate whale hunting, continues to re-evaluate measures adopted to protect  threatened whale species and monitor populations.
The sanctuary is designed to protect the 1,000 remaining blue whales,  which grow to 30 meters (100 feet) and can weigh 150 tons. Another species  which would be affected is the humpbacked. About 12,000 humpbacked whales  remain.
While most whale species have been devastated by centuries of hunting for  their blubber, used as fuel, and their meat, the minke whale remains abundant  and has become a target of Japanese and Norwegian whale hunters.
Environmentalists hope that giving the whales some sanctuary will mean  that numbers will grow, no mean feat considering that whales have a lengthy  gestation period and take a long time to reach adulthood.
In the past century, more than 1.5 million whales have been harvested from  the southern hemisphere. The blue whale population, for example, has been  reduced by 99 percent.
In addition to commercial hunting, the whale is threatened by climatic  changes such as the destruction of the ozone layer protecting Earth from the  sun's ultra-violet rays.
The meeting here has attracted hundreds of young ecologists from around  the world, people like Olive Andrews, an 18-year-old Australian, who organized  a human chain in the shape of an enormous whale to pressure delegates meeting  nearby.
