The United States and Japan have agreed to  resume bilateral trade negotiations, ending a three-month deadlock, US Trade  Representative Mickey Kantor announced Tuesday.
"I am pleased to announce a resumption of the framework negotiations  between the US and Japan," Kantor said after five days of marathon talks here  to try to get the negotiations back on track.
Kantor said US president Bill Clinton had spoken with Japanese Prime  Minister Tsutomu Hata for about 14 minutes immediately before the announcement.
Kantor said that working groups would resume negotiations Tuesday in the  sectors covered under last July's framework agreement -- automobiles and auto  parts, insurance and government procurement.
He also said he had spoken with Japanese Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa  and that the two men might meet in Paris on the sidelines of an OECD meeting  in 10 days' time.
Kantor said that the Japanese side had reiterated its commitment under the  framework accord to continue to promote demand-led growth and produce a highly  significant decrease in its current account surplus.
He denied that the accord marked a weakening of the US insistence on clear  targets to measure progress in opening Japan's markets, and said that in fact  the framework had been strengthened.
He said the two sides had gone further than the framework agreement in  agreeing "to apply both qualitative and quantitative" measures of progress  whereas the framework had an either/or approach.
"This is a firm commitment to a results-oriented agreement."
Kantor said that the two sides had agreed on a results-oriented approach  for priority sectors.
"It is now clear and mutually understood that the purpose of each  agreement is to achieve concrete and substantial results in the market,  increased access and sales, not merely to change regulations or criteria,"  Kantor said.
But he said that the marathon talks -- during which he spoke to Kakizawa  daily -- essentially amounted to a pledge by Japan to fulfill pledges to a  results-oriented agreement made when the framework was first announced in July  last year.
"The framework is clear. All we did is restate the framework and commit  Japan to live up to their obligations under the framework. That's what  happened in these negotiations," Kantor said.
But he stressed that it was "tough, getting back to this point, frankly."
The talks collapsed in February in disagreement over how to measure  progress in opening Japan's markets under an agreement struck in July last  year and aimed at reducing Tokyo's 60 billion dollar trade surplus with  Washington.
Japan rejected US calls for numerical targets, saying that smacked of  managed trade and quotas.
Kantor said Tuesday that Washington had never asked for numerical targets,  and that the US side had confirmed this in the talks resulting in the accord  announced Tuesday.
But the exact details of what qualitative and quantitative criteria will  be used remain to be negotiated in the sectoral talks.
Kantor said that the two sides were discussing an extension of the talks  to cover new sectors such as financial services and intellectual property.
He also said that while Washington is insisting on a results-oriented  agreement, no single target would be used to judge the success or failure to  open markets in an individual area.
Kantor acknowledged that there was no guarantee the agreements hammered  out would work, but warned that the United States was not abandoning any of  its arsenal of trade sanctions in its dealings with Japan.
"If they (the agreements) don't work we have preserved all our trade  laws," Kantor said.
After the trade talks collapsed in February, Washington revived the Super  301 trade law allowing it to impose unilateral trade sanctions on countries it  considers guilty of unfair trade practices.
It has already placed Tokyo on notice that it is considering punitive  action in several areas.
The two sides had been anxious to get back to the negotiating table before  the Group of Seven summit in Naples in July.
