The Tanzanian government has said the influx  of hundreds of thousands of Rwandan refugees into the country poses a great  danger to the environment and urged the international community to help.
An estimated 320,000 Rwandans fleeing savage ethnic massacres in their  country have entered neighbouring Tanzania during the past month and more are  arriving at the rate of 1,400 daily, UN officials said.
Addressing relief workers at the weekend in the northwestern Ngara  district, where most of the refugees have flocked, Home Affairs Minister  Augustine Mrema said 20,000 hectares (almost 50,000 acres) of forest in the  area had been cleared to creat" room for refugee camps.
Tanzania residents in the region were also forced to share their meagre  stocks of food with the refugees, leaving them destitute, local newspapers on  Monday quoted Mrema as saying.
"Relief organisations should also think of compensating Ngara residents  who gave out their food to help the refugees, otherwise they will find  themselves being faced with starvation," the minister said.
He appealed for medicines to cope with an imminent outbreak of diseases as  a result of poor sanitation in the crowded refugee camps.
Tanzanian authorities have meanwhile ordered all refugees entering the  country to surrender any weapons or ammunition in their possession or face  prosecution.
Refugees entering Tanzania will be thoroughly searched for weapons.
Some 64 firearms and 389 rounds of ammunition were seized from refugees  crossing the border into Tanzania at Kasulo refugee camp in Ngara, officials  said.
Rwanda plunged back into ethnic bloodletting a day after president Juvenal  Habyarima, who came from the majority Hutu ethnic group, was killed when his  plane was downed in a suspected rocket attack over Kigali, Rwanda's capital,  on April 6.
Frenzied gangs of Hutu militia backed by the army and the presidential  guard went on the rampage hacking, bludgeoning and shooting to death members  of the minority Tutsi ethnic group and opposition figures, accusing them of  assassinating the president.
The massacres have left an estimated 200,000 people dead in five weeks.
