The International Atomic Energy Agency officially  confirmed Saturday that North Korea had refused to allow its inspectors to  check the refuelling of a nuclear reactor to make sure no fuel was being  diverted to make nuclear weapons.
The isolated communist state had said it could not accept the verification  measures proposed, the agency said in a statement.
It said two senior agency members who had travelled to North Korea would  return Saturday, but that two IAEA inspectors there would remain to assess the  situation.
"The Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) rejected all IAEA  proposals put forward with the aim of maintaining the IAEA's ability to  select, segregate and secure fuel rods for later measurements so as to be able  to verify the history of the reactor core, specifically to verify whether this  is the first core," the statement said.
"The DPRK continued to maintain that it could not accept the IAEA  verification measures proposed.
"The team is returning to Vienna today. Two inspectors remain in the DPRK  to report on further developments."
IAEA director general Hans Blix said earlier in a letter to UN Secretary  General Boutros Boutros-Ghali that North Korea had resumed refuelling at its  Yongbyon reactor, defying the international inspectors and threatening to make  a full accounting of weapons-grade fuel impossible.
A copy of the letter which AFP obtained Friday said the accelerated pace  of fuel rod removal could, within days, make it impossible for inspectors to  determine whether weapons-grade plutonium had been diverted to military use.
"Should this be the case .. the agency will not be in a position to verify  the amount of plutonium produced" in North Korea, Blix said.
"At the time of writing this report almost half of the fuel in the reactor  core has been discharged and in a pattern that has precluded the agency's  ability to implement the full range of the safeguard measures required," Blix  wrote.
Ibrahim Gambari, the Nigerian ambassador who chairs the Security Council  this month, described the matter as "very serious and delicate" and said  council members would be holding consultations over the weekend.
South Korea summoned an emergency meeting of senior officials in Seoul  Saturday to discuss the situation.
At the meeting, called by Foreign Minister Han Sung-Joo, officials  discussed the North's moves and possible motives. But they decided to refrain  from comment pending a full IAEA report, a ministry spokesman said.
