South Africa could become a major  international arms dealer earning up to two billion rand (555 million dollars)  a year, according to a blueprint released Monday for the country's arms  industry.
A report by experts from South Africa's military-industrial complex,  ranging from top weapons producer Armscor to President Nelson Mandela's  African National Congress, recommended that South Africa in future trade only  in conventional weapons.
The arms trade should exclude landmines and be conducted only with  legitimate governments in deals conforming with UN resolutions, the report  said.
It called on the government to refrain from dealing in weapons of mass  destruction or contributing to the arms race, and recommended a series of  constraints on arms sales.
These included the sale of arms to states involved in war, in widespread  human rights abuses or in any international conflict.
South Africa should abide by the UN Conventional Arms Register and reveal  both its clients and the type of product it is selling to them, the report  added.
Ironically, it also recommended that arms not be sold to guerrilla  movements; the ANC itself led a 30-year guerrilla war against the former white  minority government, using weapons supplied mainly by former eastern bloc  countries.
Commissioned by the multiparty Transitional Executive Council (TEC), which  oversaw government in the run-up to the country's first all-race election last  month, the report was submitted to the new ANC-led government of national  unity for consideration as a basis for its future defence policy.
It was released for public debate Monday after the UN Security Council  vote Wednesday to lift resolutions prohibiting all arms trade with South  Africa.
The report recommended that the defence ministry control all arms exports  and imports, but said Armscor should continue to assist South African  companies in marketing and exporting their defence products.
It warned, however, that unless current expenditure on research and  development of some 420 million rand (116 million dollars) a year is  maintained, the industry could lose its technological edge, reducing South  Africa to an importer, rather than exporter, of weapons.
Should the government decide to withdraw from the international arms  industry, the report warned, up to 15,000 jobs could be affected.
South Africa's weapons industry has flourished over the years despite the  UN embargo.
Notable is its artillery, particularly G5 and self-propelled G6  155-millimetre canons, Rooikat armoured fighting vehicles, Rooivalk combat  helicopters and mine-resistant troop transports and mine-clearing equipment.
