At the half-way point in the 47th  International Film Festival here, Cannes is still waiting for a clear  frontrunner in the race for the prestigious Golden Palm.
At the same stage that, last year, Jane Campion's "The Piano" was  virtually already over the line, critics and public alike are equally divided  about who will take to the stage next Monday night.
Of course there have been some notable high-points, films which will  clearly, undoubtedly, go onto greater things outside the select viewing  theatres of the Croisette.
But, it must be said, not in the main competition.
"There just hasn't been anything in the same league as 'Piano' or  'Concubine'," said one Cannes regular, referring to last year's eventual joint  winners, Campion and Chen Kaige's "Farewell to My Concubine."
Jury president Clint Eastwood and his nine-member jury have so far sat
through 12 of the 23 films in competition.
Of those, only one appears to have united the majority of critics, if not  the public: Krzysztof Kieslowski's "Three Colours Red," the final part of his  multicoloured Franco-Polish trilogy.
In the running poll of critics in 'Moving Pictures' magazine, published  here daily and putting together critical ratings from around the world, the  film is the only one to score an average of eight out of 10.
The movie tells the story of a young woman's relationship with a  hermit-like retired judge whose dog she runs over in the street -- a  relationship which develops into near obsession.
Despite the critical approval, however, the film has not yet received  notable public enthusiasm.
One or two others have also had consistently good appraisals from the  critics: the French in particular are standing behind their pre-festival  favourite, "La Reine Margot," while Andrei Konchalovsky's "Riaba, My Chicken"  has also been praised.
Expectations are also high for Chinese director Zhang Yimou's "To Live,"  premiered Tuesday and not yet critically appraised. At its preview screening  the widely-tipped movie certainly received a clearly enthusiastic response.
The movie stars Gong Li -- who helped "Concubine" to success last year --  and has been widely hailed as a successor to the Kaige epic.
At the other end of the spectrum, clear -- but perhaps surprising --  stragglers in the race here include "A Simple Formality" by Giuseppe  Tornatore, starring Gerard Depardieu and Roman Polanski.
Another sure-fire flagger is "Le Buttane" (The Prostitutes), a  penetratingly realistic depiction of the lives of prostitutes in Sicily.  Director Aurelio Grimaldi said he was surprised the film had been selected.
In the parallel sections of the festival -- The Golden Camera (for first  time filmmakers), the Directors' Fortnight and Un Certain Regard -- trends are  similarly undistinguished.
One notable 'succes de folie' was the bravely-named "The Adventures of  Priscilla, Queen of the Desert," an Australian transvestite road movie given a  midnight screening on Saturday.
The film, by Stephan Elliott, is tipped as a possible successor to  "Strictly Ballroom," a movie of the same type which appeared in similar  circumstances two years ago, and went on to be a worldwide hit.
In the Camera D'Or section, which in the past has produced such winners as  "Salaam Bombay" by Mira Naiir in 1988 and last year's "Scent of Green Papaya"  by Tran Anh Hung, some anticipation is building for "Le Joueur de Violon" (The  Violin Player), in the official competition on Sunday.
Cannes jury decisions, even in the best of years, are notoriously  difficult to predict. When there is no obvious choice, the task is virtually  impossible, and certainly worthless.
In the days remaining until the representatives of the world's cinema  industry pack their bags next Monday night, therefore, wise advice might be  for them to to save their nerves and sit back and enjoy the show.
