A group of French intellectuals carried out a threat  to enter the European Union elections Friday, officially registering their  "Sarajevo list" and throwing mainstream parties into disarray.
Launched on May 15 by philosopher and writer Bernard-Henri Levy, the  "Europe Starts at Sarajevo" group vowed to fight the June 12 poll calling for  the Moslem-dominated Bosnian government to be exempted from a UN arms embargo  against ex-Yugoslavia.
The group also rejects a European-backed plan for an ethnic carve-up of  the former Yugoslav republic in its electoral platform for the European  parliament in Strasbourg.
Cancer specialist Leon Schwartzenberg, who heads the list, said: "If by  chance there was peace in Bosnia-Hercegovina or the integrity of Bosnian  territory was recognised and the ethnic partition abandoned, of course we'd  withdraw the list."
Among the non-French candidates on the list, are American writers Susan  Sontag and Paul Auster, South African nobel laureate Nadine Gordimer and a  former mayor of Belgrade, Bogdan Bogdanovic.
The entry of the intellectuals into the political fray has forced both the  conservative government and socialist President Francois Mitterrand to defend  their position on Bosnia, and has placed the war there at the heart of the  European electoral campaign in France.
Among the mainstream politicians, only Socialist Party leader Michel  Rocard has come out in favour of the intellectuals, distancing himself from  both Mitterrand and many in his own party by supporting their call for a  lifting of the arms embargo.
The Sarajevo list, made up of journalists, writers, artists, actors and  university teachers, has demonstrated support of between seven percent and 12  percent in the two most recent polls, hurting the socialists and the  independent leftwinger Bernard Tapie in particular.
Levy said the showing in the polls was "a slap in the face for the policy  of capitulation" by European foreign ministers.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe on Friday said he would "not let such  insults pass," pointing out that his ministry had been the first to ask for a  North Atlantic Treaty Organisation ultimatum to the forces in Serb-besieged  Sarajevo issued in February.
Levy, who presented a pro-Moslem film on the Bosnian war at the Cannes film  festival denounced Mitterrand's "self-satisfied resignation" at events in  Bosnia and condemned the "indecency" of "making out that for two years he has  been protecting the Bosnians from themselves."
Mitterrand said Wednesday that he would not "add war to war" by lifting  the arms embargo and reiterated his support for international negotiation and  a sharing out of Bosnia between the warring parties.
Juppe meanwhile warned of the spectre of a "a real Hundred Years war, with  its deaths, ruins, refugees and lasting hatreds."
