Ukraine may have no choice but to pull its ships out  of the Crimean port of Sevastopol to make way for Russia's Black Sea fleet, an  advisor to Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk said here Friday.
"We will have to accept that Sevastopol is a Russian naval base and  transfer our own navy to Balaklava," some 10 kilometres (six miles) to the  south, Nikola Mikhailchenko said.
Ukraine would lease several bases on Ukrainian territory to Russia, he  added.
His remarks came two days after the end of a new round of talks in Moscow  between Russia and Ukraine on sharing the Black Sea fleet, currently stationed  in Sevastopol.
Negotiators left the talks Wednesday without reaching agreement, but said  they had narrowed their differences enough to hope to reach an accord within  12 days.
In Sevastopol, the commander in chief of the Ukrainian navy, Vladimir  Beskorovainy, told a news conference that Russian and Ukrainian negotiators  were looking at relocating the Ukrainian fleet in Balaklava and Donuzlav,  leaving Sevastopol to the Russian fleet alone.
Such a solution would represent a climbdown by Kiev, which has always said  Moscow was asking for too much by demanding five bases in Crimea -- a  Ukrainian autonomous republic -- and the withdrawal of the Ukrainian fleet  from Sevastopol.
The sticking point, according to Mikhailchenko, is the length of the  Russian lease in Sevastopol. Russia wants a 50-year lease, while Ukraine is  thinking in terms of no more than five to 10 years.
The two sides were also at odds on the question of how much rent Russia  should pay, he added.
Crimea touched off a crisis with Ukraine on May 20 when its parliament  voted to reinstate a constitution which in Kiev's eyes amounts to a  declaration of independence.
The parliament is reviewing that vote, but has not yet decided whether it  will suspend the resolution.
Ukraine has been concerned at Crimea's tilt toward Moscow since Crimeans  elected a pro-Russian president, Yuri Meshkov, last January.
