President Bill Clinton invoked the  memories of two slain civil rights leaders Saturday in a call for an end to  the crime and violence that is horrifying Americans.
Standing on the spot where the late Senator Robert Kennedy appealed to a  crowd for calm and understanding on the night of black activist Martin Luther  King's assassination in 1968, Clinton addressed a ground-breaking ceremony for  a monument to the two slain activists and called for reconciliation.
"We just witnessed a miracle in South Africa. We hope we are witnessing a  miracle in the Middle East," he told the crowd braving a steady downpour in  Indianapolis, Indiana.
"Everywhere in the world people have looked to us for an example," he  said. "And I ask you today, have we created that miracle here at home?"
Clinton lamented Americans' growing alarm about rising crime rates,  mentioning a Washington housing project where guards were hired and a fence  erected to keep criminals out.
"That isn't the kind of freedom our forefathers conceived of 200 years  ago; not the kind of freedom that Martin Luther King and Bobby Kennedy gave  their lives for," he said.
"On that awful night 26 years ago, Robert Kennedy beckoned Americans of  all races to show compassion and wisdom in the face of violence and  lawlessness," Clinton said.
The president called on Americans "to renew the society we live in today.  It must inspire us to overcome racial, social and political divisions."
Clinton's remarks came as Congress is putting the final touches on a  wide-ranging crime bill which will increase the application of the death  penalty and put more police on patrol.
The "Landmark for Peace" memorial for King and Kennedy will be partly  constructed of guns taken out of circulation and melted down, and will be  erected next to Martin Luther King Memorial Park.
Kennedy's widow, Ethel, and his brother Senator Ted Kennedy attended the  ceremony along with two of King's sons and Irish Prime Minister Albert  Reynolds, who was in town to receive an honorary degree from Notre Dame  University.
Clinton and Reynolds met briefly to discuss the latest progress in the  peace effort in Northern Ireland.
