A Palestinian policeman stood  guard outside the ancient synagogue of Jericho on Friday, pledging it would  remain open to Jews under Palestinian self-rule.
"This is a sacred place of religion," said Lieutenant Abu el-Abed as he  stopped a Palestinian woman trying to place a flag at the entrance.
"I hope there will not be any problem. This is a place of worship, open to  all in our land, Palestine."
Jewish settlers, enraged by the inclusion of the synagogue in the  autonomous zone, have staged protest sit-ins, and had to be forcibly removed  by Israeli police.
The Shalom al Israel (Peace upon Israel) synagogue was one of the last  sites in Jericho to be transferred to Palestinian authority on Friday as  hundreds of policeman arrived to take charge.
Out of respect, there will be no Palestinian flag fluttering over the  building.
Just before the last Israeli soldiers had pulled out of the synagogue set  in fields away from the town, three die-hard Jewish settlers showed up to pray  and show the place was still theirs, despite Palestinian self-rule.
When the soldiers refused to let them in, they produced scissors and cut  up their clothes.
"We do this by tradition," said one of the three men, who had driven down  from the Ofra settlement, about 20 kilometers (12 miles) west of Jericho.
"It means that we are in mourning, or that we have given up land to the  enemy."
Under the self-rule deal, the Byzantine-era synagogue will be administered  in coordination with Jewish religious authorities. A synagogue employee is to  hold the key to the building, which houses 5th-6th century mosaics.
The site will open daily, including the Friday-Saturday Jewish Sabbath,  said a Palestinian officer.
The army declared the synagogue off-limits, and regional commander General  Ilan Biran declared Jericho a military closed zone until the completion of the  handover.
The general said it was to "stop Israelis hostile to the peace process  creating trouble, because this town has become a symbol of autonomy in the  West Bank."
Joint Israeli-Palestinian patrols are to guard the roads around the  religious site.
