Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Valery Shmarov  requested between six and eight billion dollars Monday to close its  controversial Chernobyl nuclear power plant, double the country's previous  estimates.
Shmariov, quoted by ITAR-TASS agency, said a decision on the closure of  the plant will be taken in July during the Group of Seven (G7) meeting in  Naples, Italy.
He also said the Ukraine would need 10 years to shut it down as the  country has a severe energy crisis and depends on Chernobyl for its energy  needs.
Two of the plant's four reactors currently provide the country with seven  percent of its total energy production and authorities recently announced they  plan to reactivate a third reactor.
Shmarov added that Ukraine plans to begin producing its own nuclear fuel.
The country is in the process of building eight new nuclear stations of  the same design as Chernobyl and they are expected to become operational  between 1994 and 1999.
Kiev currently receives fuel for its five nuclear plants from Russia in  exchange for the dismantling of the nuclear arsenal it inherited from the  Soviet Union.
Military experts from G7 countries visited Chernobyl earlier this month  and called for its shutdown while promising that member states would provide  financial aid for the operation.
Chernobyl was the site of the world's worst civilian nuclear accident on  April 23, 1986, when the number four reactor exploded, releasing a huge  radioactive cloud.
Earlier this month Shmarov said that it would cost a little more than  three billion dollars to shut down the plant -- one billion to build a new  concrete shell for the smashed number four reactor, 1.2 billion to complete  the construction of other reactors and about a billion to train staff.
He did not explain Monday why he had more than doubled his original  estimate.
His announcement came as foreign ministers of the European Union (EU) said  during a meeting in Brussels Monday that the EU and Ukraine will sign a  wide-ranging trade, cooperation and partnership agreement next month.
The meeting also gave general support for proposals that the EU and other  western countries should help pay for new nuclear power stations in Ukraine so  that Chernobyl, which has a troubled safety record, can be closed down.
A team of experts from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)  visited the plant and issued a report in March complaining about security  standards.
Fears were compounded in April when two minor incidents took place within  two days at the plant, located north of the Ukrainian capital Kiev.
The Ukrainian parliament decided in 1990 that it would shut down the plant  for good at the end of 1993, but in October of 1993 deputies voted to keep the  plant open in order to reduce dependence on Russian energy supplies.
