Chinese police raided the home of Tiananmen Square  dissident Wang Dan on Tuesday, signalling official determination to silence  opponents before the fifth anniversary of the pro-democracy protests.
Wang, a leader of the Beijing student movement, told AFP he was held for  an hour after 10 police broke up an interview he was giving to American  television network NBC. He said he now plans to leave the capital in the runup  to the June 4 anniversary because of mounting pressure.
The crew, consisting of a Japanese, an American, an Australian, a Filipino  and a Chinese, was detained because they had no authorisation for the  interview, one of their relatives said.
They were taken to the central Beijing offices of a police branch in  charge of foreigners in China, but released two hours later.
"The police asked me how the journalists contacted me and what we had  spoken about," the 24-year-old dissident said.
On top of Wang's private life, he said the interview had focussed on human  rights and China's trade status with the United States -- two topics at the  centre of a growing Sino-US diplomatic battle.
President Bill Clinton must announce by June 3, eve of the anniversary of  the Tiananmen deaths, whether China's Most Favoured Nation trade privileges  will be renewed.
Amidst US complaints about human rights abuses in China, the Beijing  government has released some dissidents, in what have been seen as concessions  in their campaign to retain the 30 billion dollars worth of reduced tariff  trade.
But the raid on Wang's home was a new sign of the government's  determination to stamp out internal opposition.
Beijing dissident Li Hai said a succession of arrests this year would only  "encourage opponents to make themselves heard even more once they are freed."
But Wang feels it would be better to keep a low profile. He said police  had not told him to leave but added: "I prefer to leave Beijing at the end of  the month to avoid incidents like today."
"President Clinton will not find it easy between now and June 3 to convince  Congress that the Chinese have made significant progress in human rights,  despite the freeing of religious dissidents and those who are sick," added a  diplomat.
"The communists will never let external political considerations take over  internal policy," said the diplomat. "They are ready to sacrifice MFN  advantages for stability, the regime's only guarantee of survival."
Since the start of the year, several known dissidents have been arrested  and are expected to remain in detention until the symbolic date passes.
Those dissidents still at liberty are thought to be under permanent police  surveillance. Nine foreign journalists were arrested and questioned in March  and April for making contact with Beijing dissidents.
Wang spent four years in prison after the 1989 protests. He was twice  arrested in March and was ordered to leave Beijing for a visit by US Secretary  of State Warren Christopher.
Prime Minister Li Peng reinforced the absolute need for social stability  in a speech used on the front pages of all major Chinese newspapers on Tuesday.
Li rammed home the dictum of top leader Deng Xiaoping: "Without a stable  social and political environment, it will be impossible to carry out reforms  or construction."
Five days ago President Jiang Zemin gave a staunch defence of the bloody  suppression of the June 4 movement and stressed that national stability would  be maintained at any cost.
Since the start of the year, Chinese leaders have repeatedly put across  similar messages at every opportunity.
In an explicit reference to the upcoming anniversary, the Legal Daily  reported Tuesday that a nationwide police campaign was under way to secure  stability "during the summer season."
