Thousands of tribesmen have poured into the  north western Pakistani town of Malakand to press demands for the enforcement  of Islamic law in the region, witnesses said Saturday.
Reciting Koranic verses and chanting slogans they started a sit-in which  they said would not end until President Farooq Ahmed Leghari announced the  enforcement of Sharia (Islamic) laws in the tribal district of the North West  Frontier Province.
Witnesses said thousands of demonstrators started filling the small town  from Thursday after their May 11 deadline expired. By Saturday the number had  passed 20,000 with more joining, reports said.
The tribesmen blocked a 20-kilometer (12 miles) of roads. They are living  in tents on hills and plains while many have put up plastic sheets to shelter  from rain and cold winds in the mountainous terrain, witnesses said.
The rally was organised by the Tehreek-i-Nifaz Shariat (TNS - Movement for  the enforcement of Shariat) formed in 1990.
TNS leader Soofi Mohammed told reporters he believed the government would  accept the demand.
Police and paramilitary troops were on the alert. But though no trouble  had been reported officials would not comment on the situation in Malakand.
TNS sources said the president had promised to consider their demand for  enforcement of Islamic penal code but no decision has been officially  announced.
The campaign followed a supreme court verdict in February abolishing  special regulations under which the region of Malakand, Swat and Buner was run  by the NWFP government.
The former states were merged in the provincial administration in the late  1960s. Prior to the merger the region had special Moslem courts which used to  decide local disputes on the basis of Islamic laws.
The tribesmen were unhappy at the Provincially Administered Tribal Area  regulations used after the merger. They expressed resentment at powers given  to local administrators. They also oppose federal laws put in place as a  result of February's supreme court verdict but not yet implemented.
