Murdered anti-apartheid  activist Matthew Goniwe's family was in limbo Sunday after a judge who ruled  that the South African security forces had killed him baulked at naming the  guilty.
The mutilated and charred bodies of Goniwe, fellow activist Fort Calata  and two others were found in their burnt out car on a road overlooking a bay  near this south coast city on June 27, 1985.
Twenty days earlier, the military commander of the region, Joffel van der  Westhuizen, had sent a message to the State Security Council (SSC) in Pretoria  recommending the "permanent removal from society" of Goniwe, his brother  Mbulelo Goniwe and Fort Calata.
Van Der Westhuizen went on to become head of Military Intelligence (MI),  retiring on health grounds on March 31.
Judge Neville Zietsman concluded Saturday at the end of a marathon inquest  that the message amounted to a death warrant, and not a mere detention order,  as the army had contended.
"It has been proved prima facie that the signal ... was a recommendation  that Matthew Goniwe, Mbulelo Goniwe and Fort Calata should be killed," he said.
And went on: "The murders were committed by members of the security  forces."
But in his 82 page report, Zietsman refused to link Van Der Westhuizen to  the killings.
Zietsman said: "The evidence at this inquest does not in my opinion prove  the necessary link and I am accordingly not able to bring in a positive prima  facie finding against any particular person."
The security force involvement might never have come to light at all if  the matter had been laid to rest after an initial cursory inquest, which  dismissed the murders as the result of feuding within the black opposition.
But the pro-African National Congress (ANC) weekly New Nation published a  facsimile of Van Der Westhuizen's signal in May 1992, prompting former  president Frederik de Klerk, who had been a member of the SSC in 1985, to  order a fresh inquest.
The inquest papers will now be forwarded to Eastern Cape Attorney-General  Les Roberts, but even if he decides to prosecute, the alleged culprits could  go free thanks to a proposed amnesty for those who come clean about the crimes  they committed in the service of apartheid.
Goniwe's widow Nyameka told the domestic news agency SAPA: "In the spirit  of the reconciliation mood, we are not suggesting revenge against the people  who were involved, but we want to know exactly what happened on the night of  June 27, 1985."
