Refugees fleeing clashes around the key Yemeni  town of Al Daleh gathered at Aden's busy qat market on Friday eagerly awaiting  the arrival of mountain traders with news from the front.
Despite limited resources, authorities in this southern stronghold were  doing their best to cope with a tide of refugees which could grow with  northern and southern troops locked in a grim struggle for control of Al Daleh.
Schools across the port city were being used as makeshift shelters and  basic foodstuffs were being made available, as the war raged on for a second  week.
But the unofficial qat market has become the place for information as  mountain traders bring down from Al Daleh their crops of the green leaf, which  when chewed can produce a mild intoxication.
Heated discussions broke out among the refugees trading stories about the  war between northern units loyal to President Ali Abdallah Salah and the  southern forces of Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid.
"Al Daleh hasn't fallen. I've just come from there, but the bombings  continue without let up," said one farmer.
Others around him disagreed, but an hour later the qat from Al Daleh --  known as the best in the mountains -- had still not arrived.
Al Daleh commands a strategic position in the mountains on the road to a  key southern air base, making it the target of a push southwards by Saleh's  troops.
Tanks and multiple rocket-launchers rumbled Friday along the 35-kilometre  (23-mile) road out of Aden, while airplanes screamed overhead. In the distance  firing could be heard.
Most of the refugees depend on qat for their livelihoods, but fled their  homes carrying with them only a few possessions such as a mattress and some  food as the fighting edged closer.
One worker with an international aid organisation said the road to Al  Daleh was still open, as northern troops had apparently not succeeded in  breaking through southern defences.
Northern forces said Thursday they had captured the town 90 kilometres (55  miles) north of Aden. But the south said it had retaken the positions in a  counter offensive.
Despite the claims and counter-claims, nobody here doubted that Al Daleh  and its 7,000 residents had been dealt a severe blow, amid reports that the  town's hospital had been evacuated.
Some 70 villagers from Al Uwaraah also arrived Thursday in Aden from Al  Uwaraah, fleeing shelling.
They have been temporarily housed in a school in an Aden suburb, where the  first emergency was the birth of a baby boy.
The mother Hamida sat on the floor of an unfurnished classroom surrounded  by other women, her eyes saddened and troubled by fears for the future.
Only her husband remained with the women, the other men having left to  attend Friday prayers in the mosques or to search for an empty apartment to  squat in, rather than the camp offer by the local governor.
Supplies of vegetable oil, sugar, a sack of Indian rice and soap powder  provided by the southern authorities were stacked in a corner of the  schoolyard.
Meanwhile, Sanaa announced that northern reinforcements had been sent to  Al Daleh, close to the old border between the former North and South Yemen  which were unified in May 1990.
