China has slashed import licences and quotas on  195 products in an apparent last-ditch bid to realise re-entry into the  General Agreement on Tarrifs and Trade (GATT) before year's end.
Announcing the decision late Wednesday, Assistant Minister of Foreign  Economic Trade and Cooperation Long Yongtu, described the quota eliminations  as a "major move" to bring China's trade system into line with international  standards.
The 195 products include 30 items that had been scheduled for release from  import licensing and quota restrictions later this year, and 120 that China  had pledged to free in 1995.
The pledges were enshrined in an earlier Sino-US memorandum of  understanding (MOU) on market access.
The fact that the restrictions have been lifted "ahead of schedule" shows  that China has the sincerity and the ability to fulfill its commitments to  GATT, Long said.
China, which was a founding member of GATT but left after the communists  came to power in 1949, has repeatedly made it clear that it attaches great  political significance to rejoining the institution before it is replaced by  the World Trade Organisation (WTO) on January 1.
Long's announcement came just two days before he heads a Chinese  delegation to Brussels and Washington for a fresh round of negotiations on  China's GATT membership with the European Union and the United States.
The timing of the latest import and quota cuts is clearly aimed at putting  pressure on the United States, which China views as the major obstacle to  early readmission.
Beijing has accused Washington of making excessive demands regarding the  liberalisation of China's foreign trade regime, while Washington has insisted  that Beijing needs to provide a greater degree of trade transparency.
The issue has been further clouded by the long-running Sino-US dispute  over the renewal of China's most-favoured-nation (MFN) status with the United  States.
President Bill Clinton is believed to be poised to renew MFN, but with  limited sanctions for China's human rights abuses -- a move that is sure to  draw an angry response from Beijing.
Despite the latest cuts, it still seems unlikely that China will realise  GATT readmission before January 1.
During a visit here earlier this month, GATT secretary general Peter  Sutherland all but ruled out early re-entry, labelling the schedule put  forward by Beijing "extremely demanding."
Sutherland's remarks were echoed Wednesday by deputy US representative  Booth Gardne who said it would be "tough for anybody to do the amount of work  that has to be done in the little time that is left."
The actual deadline is closer than December as GATT negotiating parties  have to reach a substantive protocol agreement on re-entry by June in order to  have any hope of inducting China before January 1.
However, Long said he hoped the latest Chinese move would create a "good  climate" for the upcoming negotiations, during which he also pledged to  provide more specific details about the country's foreign trade regime.
China lifted restrictions on 283 foreign imports last year, and  Wednesday's announcement leaves 769 products still controlled by import  licenses or quotas. Under the MOU, China has undertaken to phase out  restrictions on a further 340 items.
