Spanish coach Javier Clemente believes anything less  than a quarter-final place in the United States would be a failure, even  though his squad does not have a single outfield player with an international  reputation.
Real Madrid's Michel, Emilio Butragueno and Manuel Sanchis, the stars of  the Spanish side that reached the second round in Italy, have all been axed  since Clemente took over in 1992.
The Real trio were the backbone of the side in 1990 but the then coach  Luis Suarez bitterly criticised them afterwards for interfering in team  selection.
Clemente's clearout, which came after Spain failed to reach the 1992  European championship finals, has been controversial. In his first six matches  in charge he used 31 players and for two of the qualifiers he declined to pick  a single player from Real.
Not only did his critics claim he was anti-Real but Clemente, a  44-year-old former coach of Athletic Bilbao and Barcelona's second side  Espanol, was also accused of favouring fellow Basques after naming eight in  one of his teams and appointing Andoni Goicochea -- as his assistant.
The preponderance of Basques and Catalans in Clemente's squads means Spain  could easily field a team without a single player who would call himself a  Spaniard in the side.
Barcelona provide nine of the squad that will travel to the United States.
But the coach denies any bias, and his philosophy that the team must  always come first was vindicated in the last two qualifying matches.
Needing two wins to book their place, Spain first went to Dublin and  inflicted a first home defeat in eight years on Ireland, then heroically beat  Denmark in Seville despite having veteran goalkeeper Andoni Zubizarreta sent  off after only 15 minutes.
In those two crucial matches, Clemente's team displayed a character and  willingness to work that has often been badly lacking in the more talented  Spanish teams that have failed to live up to expectations in the last four  World Cups.
As befits a team whose assistant manager was known as the 'Butcher of  Bilbao' in his playing days, Spain are capable of mixing it with the best of  them.
